JOHANNESBURG - The SA Communist Party (SACP) wants an official inquest into the circumstances surrounding the murder of former SACP leader Chris Hani, general secretary Blade Nzimande said on Friday. “The SACP welcomes the news that [Hani’s murderer] Janusz Walus will remain in prison, Walus does not show any remorse for murdering our general secretary. Still there is no full disclosure of the truth,” he said at the Moses Kotane (North West) provincial congress in Klerksdorp. “On behalf of the Central Committee, I want to reiterate our call as the SACP, of an official inquest to investigate all the circumstances surrounding the assassination of our former general secretary. There are other issues the SACP is concerned about, including what the objective of revoking the murderer’s citizenship while in jail serving a life sentence was. This occurred during the time when we were opposing his parole application.” On Friday, Justice and Correctional Services Minister, Michael Masutha, announced that Walus — who is serving a life sentence for Hani’s murder — would not be released on parole, as he still showed no remorse. Masutha said a psychological report identified Walus’ political ideology as a risk factor. READ: Janusz Waluś to remain behind bars Walus shot and killed Hani on 10 April 1993 outside his home in Dawn Park, Boksburg. He was convicted of murder and sentenced to death in October 1993, but the sentence was later commuted to life imprisonment. On 10 April 2015, Walus had brought an application to be placed on parole after serving 21 years and six months of the sentence, in terms of the Correctional Services Act 111 of 1998. At the time, Masutha denied Walus parole and ordered a further profile to be submitted, a decision that was challenged by Walus who approached the North Gauteng High Court. The court set aside Masutha’s decision and ordered his placement on parole. Masutha approached the Supreme Court of Appeal, who upheld his appeal against the high court judgment, with an order remitting the matter back to Musutha for reconsideration and a decision within 90 days. He was required to also consider Walus’s responses to the victim impact statement from Hani’s widow Limpho Hani. Limpho and the SACP opposed Walus’ release on parole. Walus’ erstwhile co-accused Clive Derby-Lewis, who was also given a life sentence, was released on medical parole in June 2015 after serving 22 years. He died in November 2016. African News Agency