TWICKENHAM - Elliot Daly scored two tries as a much-changed England ended the year with a comfortable if scrappy 48-14 win over Samoa at Twickenham on Saturday. England scored seven tries in total, with the remainder of their points kicked by fly-half George Ford. Victory gave Eddie Jones his 22nd victory in 23 Tests as England coach but his new-look team were often bested at the breakdown. Jones made nine changes following last week's 30-6 win over his native Australia in a bid to develop the squad's depth ahead of the 2019 World Cup in Japan. "It was a muddling performance," Jones told Sky Sports after England, who launched their November series with a 21-8 victory over Argentina, made it three wins out of three this month. "We started well but got seduced by the perceived easiness of the match and stopped doing the small things well and got pulled back before finishing it off," the former Australia and Japan coach added. "Elliot Daly was superb. George Ford controlled the game well at 10. "We've got a hell of a lot of work to do. We don't have the consistency yet but we've got two years to put that right." Having gone 22-7 up at the break, England had to wait until the hour-mark before Wasps wing Daly extended their lead against a Samoa side who've now lost all seven of their Tests this year. The build-up to this match had seen England's Rugby Football Union pledge to give the cash-strapped Samoa Rugby Union £75,000 ($99,767, 84,194 euros) from the proceeds of Saturday's fixture, although England's players decided against donating part of their match fees. Dylan Hartley, England's captain for all their previous 22 Tests under Jones, was benched with British and Irish Lions hooker Jamie George given a first Red Rose start in his place. Quick start It took England less than two minutes to score Saturday's first try after recalled flanker Maro Itoje made a blindside break before sending in returning fullback Mike Brown. Ford, kicking in place of the rested Owen Farrell, added the conversion after officials checked for an earlier knock-on and England led 7-0. Minutes later that became 12-0 as Alex Lozowski scored his first England try.  Samoa failed to deal with a high kick, with Daly regathering the loose ball. Daly found George who then produced an inside pass that allowed centre Lozowski, one of the 'new boys' looking to impress Jones, a clear run to the line. Samoa, however, responded soon afterwards with flanker Piula Faasalele burrowing over under the posts from close range for a 13th-minute try converted by Tim Nanai-Williams. England were now 12-7 ahead and Ford extended their lead with a 19th-minute penalty. England, having been sucked into playing the kind of open game that suited Samoa, then started to work the ball through their forwards. This policy was rewarded when, after running a couple of penalties inside Samoa's 22, scrum-half Danny Care fed lock Charlie Ewels, who went over for a close-range try in the 29th minute which Ford converted. Jones's men, having declined kickable penalties only to be denied further tries by sloppy errors, led by 15 points at the interval. England should have had another try early in the second half after Brown surged into Samoa's 22 but Care knocked on a poor pass from Lozowski, the son of former England international Rob Lozowski. Samoa put in some typically thumping tackles without threatening a comeback. And when England, at last, completed a second-half handling movement together, Ford's pass found Daly for a try. The final 10 minutes saw centre Henry Slade score England's fifth try after running a neat line onto a pass from Ben Youngs. At the other end, Samoa captain Chris Vui scored his first Test try before Daly scythed past four defenders for his second score. Slade's precise pass then sent replacement wing Semesa Rokoduguni in for the ninth try of the match with the last play of the game. AFP