JOHANNESBURG - Black Friday is coming up and that means retailers should prepare for hundreds of customers expected to flood into stores to buy discounted goods. According to Price Check, customers are gearing up for November 24. Some have predicted discounts of 25 percent, while others are expecting 50 percent off, but most were hoping that retailers would follow the lead of the original US sale and mark merchandise down by a whopping 70 - 80 percent. Stefan Salzer, partner and managing director at BCG South Africa said most retailers use Black Friday as an opportunity to get more customers through their doors or onto their online sites by drastically reducing prices on selected merchandise. He had the following tips for retailers offering special deals: Demonstrate how unique your offering really is: There are a number of ways that retailers can differentiate themselves from their competition, for example, by offering a “pre-shopping experience” for customers with loyalty cards and opening the physical doors or their online specials to 'loyalty' customers before other customers, or tiering the specials according to loyalty and spend. Alternatively, retailers can offer a demonstration or activation the night before the sale to attract shoppers. Ensure that there is enough stock for customers: Customers need merchandise to buy. Retailers need to make sure there is enough stock by gradually building up merchandise levels over the three to four days before Black Friday itself. There should be enough security and staff: While increased foot traffic is mostly positive, it also poses security risks – retailers need to ensure that they are adequately prepared to guide the masses of shoppers through their store and not lose out on the security front. For retailers offering online shopping capabilities, it is critical to ensure that the most up-to-date security measures are in place in terms of encryption and protecting their customers’ personal information. Salzer said as the Black Friday trend continues to gain popularity, retailers need to be able to implement pioneering ideas to win over customers as their demand for real value increases. eNCA