CAPE TOWN – The City of Cape Town’s investment in public transport has resulted in 1,000 new call centre jobs, the city said on Sunday. “The City of Cape Town’s strategic investment in key public transport corridors is yielding thousands of new jobs for our residents,” the city said in a statement. The city had established the “country’s most successful bus rapid transit system”, otherwise known as the MyCiTi bus service. Since its roll-out in May 2010, the MyCiTi service had been providing residents and visitors across Cape Town with access to safe, reliable and affordable public transport, enabling thousands of commuters to access job opportunities.
	
	The MyCiTi service consisted of 40 routes, 42 stations and 380 bus stop pairs, with 255 buses operating during peak-hour periods, transporting an average of 65,995 passengers on a weekday, the city said.
	
	“The creation of work opportunities is the single biggest benefit that the city can offer its residents. In my opinion, it is very important for us to encourage young people to participate actively in the economy and to seize opportunities so that we can reduce poverty and unemployment,” mayor Patricia de Lille said.
	
	Mayoral committee member for transport and urban development Brett Herron said: “We are beginning to see the return on this investment with the expansion of a call centre on the Voortrekker Road corridor that will add 1000 jobs to our local economy. "The new phase of the Capita Call Centre is located next to one of our MyCiTi bus stops in Maitland, meaning those employed at the call centre can use our MyCiTi service to travel to and from work,” READ: Ambitious project to create a million manufacturing jobs in 10 years The city was using public transport to achieve a more compact, efficient and sustainable city, Herron said. Cape Town’s major public transport corridors formed the backbone of what were called integration zones (IZs). The Voortrekker Road corridor was one of these IZs where the city was spending the bulk of its capital budget on projects and interventions to transform Cape Town’s spatial reality and to address the legacy of apartheid spatial planning.
	
	“By prioritising dense, transit-oriented growth and development in these IZs, the city seeks to create more inclusive communities with access to improved services, job opportunities, affordable housing and public transport. "The opening of the second phase of the Capita Call Centre in Maitland is a shining example of what we are pursuing. The new phase adds 1,000 new jobs to the existing 700 employees already based at the centre. The combined 1700 job opportunities are a realisation of our strategic investment in fibre and affordable public transport,” Herron said.
	
	The call centre was also in close proximity to a train station. “The call centre depends on affordable, reliable transport for its employees. We want to increase similar employment nodes across the city, and are very aware of the valuable role of commuter rail in achieving this outcome. "We have already embarked on a process for getting urban rail back on track. Last month, council approved our business plan for the assignment of the urban rail function to the city – this is the first step in working towards a more reliable and integrated public transport system,” he said.
	  African News Agency