TZANEEN – The South African Police Service in Limpopo on Sunday condemned a spate of shootings and murders overnight – one allegedly perpetrated by a police constable who shot several family members – apparently driven by “aspects including domestic violence, liquor, and others in a number of areas”. “This condemnation follows the two separate incidents which took place in the Ritavi policing area outside Tzaneen between last night [Saturday] and this morning [Sunday],” Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said. It was alleged that at about 10.25pm on Saturday night at Lusaka village, a 37-year-old police constable “had a domestic conflict and subsequently shot his father in-law, aged 53, in the head, killing him instantly”. “He proceeded and shot his girlfriend, aged 27, his mother-in-law, aged 51, his sister-in-law, aged 22, and his brother-in-law, aged 20 several times throughout their bodies, but they survived and [were] taken to hospital where they are still recuperating. The suspect was also found lying dead with a gunshot wound, the firearm lying next to his body in the same place,” Ngoepe said. READ: Police officer survives suicide after killing wife and daughter In another incident, at about 1.45am on Sunday morning at a tavern in Bridgeway village near Nkoankoa township, two unknown men were shot dead and two others were wounded by a 62-year-old man. “The suspect was then attacked and severely assaulted by [an] unknown group of people who even disarmed him [of] the firearm used and disappeared with it, and he is under police guard in hospital,” Ngoepe said. The motive behind the first incident was domestic violence-related conflict. The motive behind the second incident was still unknown at this stage, but police investigations were continuing. The people who assaulted the shooter were still unknown and no arrests had been made. “As the police, we urge people to refrain from resorting to violence when resolving domestic issues. We have the helping professions within the police service who are well trained to come with appropriate interventions that assist in resolving domestic problems. There are also relevant government structures who offer such services for free,” Ngoepe said. African News Agency