JOHANNESBURG - Returning flanker Siya Kolisi says the Springboks will hold nothing back as they look to produce a memorable season-ending performance against Wales in Cardiff on Saturday. Kolisi missed last weekend’s Test against Italy after returning home to be at the birth of his second child, and he has now rejoined the camp in good spirits. In his absence, the Boks managed to claim a comfortable 35-6 victory over Italy, which built on the important one-point win over France the week before. READ: Boks welcome back fit-again Marx and Kolisi for Wales Test Regardless of these two results, the fact remains that the Boks’ end-of-year tour still has a massive shadow hanging over it as a result of the record 38-3 loss suffered against Ireland on November 11. It means that plenty will be at stake this Saturday, with the Boks searching for a victory that would continue to silence the critics that have been out in full force since that dark day in Dublin. Speaking from the Bok camp this week, Kolisi said they knew it could be a defining encounter in Cardiff. “Coach Franco [Smith] told us that we will be remembered for this game against Wales. We’re going to give it everything we have this weekend. “It was tough to watch the game against Italy last week. That was a great performance, especially by the forwards, and I would have loved to have been part of it. I’m fortunate to be back for this last game, though, and all the boys are keen to finish on a high.” READ: Boks crush Italy Interestingly, the roof at the Millenium Stadium will be closed for this Saturday’s clash, which may well influence the Boks’ tactics following a wet-weather affair in Italy. Considering that loose-forwards Duane Vermeulen and Francois Louw have now returned to their overseas clubs, Kolisi could well slot into a mobile loose-trio that includes Uzair Cassiem and Dan du Preez. It should make for an enthralling battle against a formidable Welsh back row. “Josh Navidi played well against the All Blacks last week,” Kolisi noted. “The Wales loose forwards like to play with ball in hand and they also defend well. Obviously we will have to cover the whole width of the field. “It’s going to be a different challenge. They showed what they can do against the No 1 team in the world, so we will need to be on our toes.” African News Agency