PARIS - Pop star Shakira was forced to cancel the first swathe of concerts of her world tour on Friday because of a problem with her vocal cords, the tour's promoters said. The Colombian singer postponed two concerts this weekend in Paris and a Belgian date on Sunday as well as a concert in Amsterdam on Tuesday "on the orders of her doctor", they said. Not fair.... Now I can't get my refund for the flight tickets that I had booked... But @shakira doesn't care about this... The "Hips Don't Lie" star already called off the opening concert of the "El Dorado World Tour" in Cologne on Wednesday, telling fans that all cancelled shows would be rearranged. READ: Colombian star Shakira faces second plagiarism charge "We regret to announce the postponement of the dates," promoters Live Nation said. The tour hasn’t began already and you have vocal cords problems ? Seriously ? With all your years of experience as a singer how can you make such a big mistake while rehearsing ? Very sad and disappointed for all your fans that came from all over the world for these shows. "It was under the orders of her doctor because the singer's vocal cords are still recovering." "Shakira is really upset not to see her fans, and is thankful for all the support they have given her in this difficult period," their statement added. The singer is now due to kick off the tour in the southern French city of Montpellier on Thursday before a slew of Spanish concerts, which will end in her adopted home of Barcelona at the end of the month. Shakira is crossing very dangerous territory with her fans. She's been cancelling everything this era from confirmed event appearances to concert dates. If she wants to continue her legacy, she needs to rethink her approach. I couldn't care less what the waka stans think. The star, who has a reported net worth of around 260 million euros (R4,34-billion), was this week caught up in the "Paradise Papers" leaks. According to the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, she avoids tax by being domiciled in the Bahamas and has transferred the rights to her songs to companies in Malta and Luxembourg. AFP