JOHANNESBURG - Black Friday has not just been denounced for its glorified consumerism and the chaos it has caused at shopping malls, many bargain-hunters have noticed the deals offered aren't so drastically different from standard sales offered all year long.  TIPS: Protect yourself from Black Friday hackers South African stores are doing a dark'ish grey Friday Capitec bank has warned shoppers to be careful, saying "while the news of massive sales will get you through the shop door, the rest of the products in-store might not be such a bargain. When you later realise how much you’ve overspent, you’ll have to deal with Sad Saturday and a gloomy Rest-Of-The-Month." Social media users expressed how little retailers were really offering customers and the difficulty of accessing the websites of some online retailers who made big sale promises they apparently are struggling to deliver on. #BlackFriday in South Africa be like Normal Price: R6000
		#BlackFridayDeals
		Was: R7999
		Now: 6000 pic.twitter.com/XvJ87HGtLz This what South Africa offers us on Black Friday. pic.twitter.com/AHdqukLm1x What the biggest online retailer in South Africa does NOT want to see on #BlackFriday. Heads (or web hosts) rolling at @Takealot? pic.twitter.com/P21DeD6vSM Capitec explained that with Christmas around the corner, retailers have a month left to lure consumers into their shops with attractive deals. "On Black Friday, stores have so-called doorbusters – those are the big discount deals being advertised to get you into the shop – but the discount on the majority of the products is much smaller," the bank said in a statement. This sentiment was echoed by social media users who caught the trick. The irony in all this is that Superbalist give bigger discounts on normal days than on Black Friday. so vele vele Superbalist has 40% discounts on the daily but on Black Friday they are saying 20%?! @superbalist no man come on Capitec and economists recommended shoppers carefully consider their purchases and make sure they're not being drawn in by sales ploys. A morning message from your #VOOVPlug! Today is #BlackFriday. The perfect time to buy what you need and save but be careful of spending money that you don't have on things you don't need. pic.twitter.com/CgGPbvqPNC eNCA