CAPE TOWN - Track and Field athletes dominated the stage at the SA Sports Awards earlier this month but it was Sportsman of the Year with a Disability award winner’s acceptance speech that caught everyone’s attention. In his speech, Dyan Buis said: “I have a dream that Paralympians and Olympians will receive equal status and that the SA republic will respect and honour disabled athletes for the heroes and the stars that they are”. The Paralympian who has had cerebral palsy since birth said that even though para-athletes work as hard as Olympic athletes in South Africa they are not given a chance to make a career out of sports and he thinks that the government can do more than what they are doing now to level out the field for para-athletes who do more with fewer sponsors and benefits. & “There has been an improvement, but I think a lot more can be done. The government have put in place policy to encourage equity in the workplace for people with disabilities, what about sport as a career? I am on the same level as any other Olympic medallist in SA or in any other country. Why do other people view it differently and rewarded differently? In fact, para-athletes accomplish more with fewer sponsorships and benefits. If you look at disabled athletics and able-bodied athletics if they view it through the lens of fairness and equality, then you will see para-athletes are at the shortest end” said Buis. The award-winning athlete who’s also an ordained pastor in the AFM of SA, a full-time teacher and has just been accepted in a Master’s Degree Program in Education Policy at Stellenbosch University says he remembers  2014-2015 being the worst time during his career due to financial constraints. “My worst time in my career was 2014-2015. I went through a very difficult time with financial constraints which impacted everything else” said Buis. Buis said corporate sponsors should get more involved in developing para-sports. “Para- Athletes do not get endorsement deals, performance bonuses from corporate sponsors, they do not get complimentary vehicles as able-bodied athletes. Why is that so? Discrimination, stigmatisation, inequality. In South Africa para-sport is not developed yet, but it does not stop big corporates to invest money to grow the sport. To sponsor sport that need it. Either then just getting on the bandwagon of already established sports for promotional gains. If corporates really want to make a difference they would invest in para-sport and create equal opportunities for para-athletes,” said Buis. There isn’t enough sports development at grassroots levels which means a lot of differently abled children are left behind and excluded from taking part in sports. And this mainly because children in the rural areas and townships along with their families may not know that they have the ability to compete on a world stage. And the only way for them to know this is if they are shown by the media that they are no limits. He also lashed out the media for their lack of covering para-athletes. “In this regard, there is no equality between able-bodied athletes and para-athletes. More coverage would result in more sponsorships, more grassroots development and generally more awareness of para-sport.” Buis believes that a solution would be for the government and corporates to join forces and invest in developing more para-athletes at grassroots levels. Buis has represented SA at the Paralympics and World Championships since 2011 in New Zealand, UK, UAE, Brazil, France and many more other countries in smaller competitions.  And says that winning awards for his sporting achievements have made him proud and he hopes in the future a para-athlete would be nominated for the People’s Choice Award. - Palesa Manaleng eNCA