JOHANNESBURG – Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa will lead the South African delegation to the World Rugby Council announcement of the Rugby World Cup 2023 host venue in London. Ramaphosa led the country’s bid team in September when it presented its case to host the 2023 tournament. “Deputy President Ramaphosa’s participation and leadership in this visit will once more demonstrate government’s support for and commitment to the effort to return the tournament to the African continent in the 21st century,” the Presidency said on Sunday. READ: Ireland hammer Springboks with record win The announcement, to host the 2023 tournament that will take place 200 years after the invention of the game of rugby by William Webb Ellis, is expected to take place on Wednesday in the British capital. South Africa who hosted and won the tournament on home soil in 1995, will be competing against European nations Ireland and 2007 hosts France. South Africa are favourites to host the tournament after World Rugby recommended the country. However ‘The Rainbow Nation’ needs to clear one final hurdle before the celebrations can begin. The recommendation will now be put to the vote of the World Rugby Council in London on Wednesday. All three candidates will appear on the ballot paper but World Rugby has stressed to its members that recommendation of the Evaluation Committee should be taken into consideration. READ: SA called to back 'green days' in 2023 RWC bid There are 39 votes at stake with a simple majority required to determine the eventual host nation. The candidate nations do not have a vote. Those eligible to vote in the secret ballot on 15 November are: Australia (3 votes), England (3), New Zealand (3), Scotland (3), Wales (3), Italy (3), Argentina (3), Canada (1), Japan (2), Georgia (1), Romania (1), USA (1), Asia Rugby (2), Oceania Rugby (2), Rugby Africa (2), Rugby Americas North (2), Rugby Europe (2), Sudamerica Rugby (2). The Presidency announced that a high-powered delegation will again include Sport and Recreation Minister Thulas Nxesi, SA Rugby President Mark Alexander and CEO Jurie Roux. AFP