JOHANNESBURG - Factional divisions in two provinces have prised apart the role of ANC provincial chair and premier. In the Eastern Cape and Northern Cape, the roles are split between those aligned to Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and to Cyril Ramaphosa. Research commissioned by e.TV suggests ANC voters are moderately satisfied with the premiers of both provinces. READ: Ramaphosa calls for state capture culprits to pay back the money Their own branches, however, have elected new chairs ahead of the National Elective Conference. From 2014, Phumulo Masualle was both ANC chairperson and premier in the Eastern Cape. That changed in September when violence erupted at the provincial elective conference. With one faction boycotting proceedings, delegates elected Oscar Mabuyane as ANC chairperson in a landslide victory. Mabuyane has publicly endorsed presidential hopeful, Cyril Ramaphosa. A disgruntled Masualle retains his position as premier. He is supported by firebrand Andile Lungisa – a key lobbyist for the Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma camp. READ: Dlamini-Zuma denies Gupta links e.TV commissioned MarkData Research to survey ANC voters’ opinions. A third of respondents in the Eastern Cape rate Masualle’s performance as premier poorly. There is a roughly even split between those who do and do not think the Eastern Cape government has dealt well with factionalism. From 2013, Sylvia Lucas was both ANC chairperson and premier in the Northern Cape. She withdrew from the race for party chair before the provincial conference in May. ANC delegates then elected Zamani Saul, unopposed, as provincial chair. In line with tradition, Saul supports the ANC deputy president’s bid to be the next party president. MarkData Research shows 73.1% of respondents do not think the Northern Cape government has dealt well with factionalism. 50.2% of those polled say Lucas has not done a good job as premier. The Northern Cape survey polled 58 ANC voters in the least populated province in South Africa. The mother-body wants to smooth over divisions like those in the Eastern and Northern Cape during the conference. Disgruntled factions have pursued these disputes in the court.  eNCA