HARARE - President Robert Mugabe agreed on Sunday to resign as Zimbabwe's president hours after the ruling Zanu-PF party fired him as its leader following 37 years in charge, a source familiar with the negotiations said. The party had given the 93-year-old less than 24 hours to quit as head of state or face impeachment, an attempt to secure a peaceful end to his tenure after a de facto coup. The source said the Zimbabwe military was working on a resignation statement by Mugabe, without giving details. State broadcaster the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation (ZBC)'s van has arrived at State House ahead of an announcement in the next few hours, a source at the company told Reuters. The van was sent as pressure mounted on 93-year-old President Robert Mugabe to step down as Zanu-PF leader and the county’s president. He was given until noon on Monday to resign or face impeachment. EXPLAINER: Three ways Mugabe's end game could unfold The ruling party made its decision to sack Mugabe public on Sunday after a meeting of more than 200 delegates. The announcement was met with cheers by Zanu-PF delegates in the capital. WATCH: Mugabe recalled as Zanu-PF head, Grace expelled Mugabe, army chiefs meet Mugabe and army chiefs who seized power in Zimbabwe on Tuesday met for further talks on Sunday, state media reported. "President Robert Mugabe this afternoon met with Zimbabwe Defence Forces Generals at State House," the Herald said on its Twitter feed, accompanied by photographs. The images showed Mugabe, who wore a black suit, white shirt and red tie, with his hand to his head and deep in conversation with senior security officials. They included army chief Constantino Chiwenga who led the military takeover earlier this week. In the pictures, televisions playing Middle Eastern news broadcaster Al Jazeera could be seen in the background. Mugabe's grip on power was broken by the intervention of the military, angered at his wife Grace's emergence as the leading candidate to succeed him in next year’s general election. On Saturday, tens of thousands of overjoyed demonstrators flooded the streets of Zimbabwe in peaceful celebrations marking the apparent end of his long and authoritarian rule. IN PICTURES: Top posters from Zimbabwe's historical protest Mugabe, who is the oldest president in the world, is the only leader Zimbabwe has known in 37 years of independence. READ: Zanu-PF reveals Mnangagwa as 2018 presidential candidate Additional reporting by Reuters. AFP