JOHANNESBURG - "Hey megalomania/ You're no Jesus/ Yeah, you're no f***ing Elvis/ Special, as you know yourself/ Baby, just step down, step down." These lyrics were written by alternative rock band Incubus in 2004, aimed at then-US President George Bush, but they seem more applicable today than then.  In February 2018, South Africans will be able to catch the band live when they do their first tour in Mzansi.  The Californian rockers released their eighth album this year, aptly named 8, and are celebrating the 20th anniversary of their first major label album S.C.I.E.N.C.E with a world tour. The South African leg of the tour will kick off in Pretoria on February 24 at the Voortrekker Monument before hitting Cape Town on February 28 at the Green Point A Track. The band announced their excitement in a tweet.  Incubus will be supported by some of South Africa’s biggest rock legacy acts. Pretoria fans can look forward to a full day of head-banging, rocking tunes from 12:00 to midnight. The band's worldwide album sales exceed 23 million and they have had a number of number one hits “Drive”, “Megalomaniac”, “Anna-Molly”, and “Love Hurts”. At the same time, fans can look forward to a sense of nostalgia when listening to select songs from their latest album - “Nimble Bastard”, “No Fun” and “Glitterbomb” - as Incubus return to their heavier rock roots. 8 was co-produced by close friend and musical genius Sonny John Moore, more commonly known as Skrillex. Lead guitarist Mike Einziger believes Skrillex’s contribution to the album was both stellar and natural. “It evolved organically out of my friendship with Skrillex,” said Einziger. “Incubus is all about friendship. We transferred the synergy of working together into what the band was doing. As we put the final touches on everything, Skrillex brought another level to the album. “When we finished 8, we were flooded with this wave of gratitude,” Boyd said. “The fact that so many people are willing to come on this weird ride with us is really humbling. We’re filled with this sense of awe around it. We’re very happy to share this record with everyone, and we hope they like it.” Tickets are on sale at www.incubussatour.co.za and range from R175 to R395 for general access and R795 for Golden Circle tickets. eNCA