JOHANNESBURG – A first-half brace by stalwart midfielder Hlompho Kekana and a late Anthony Laffor screamer ensured that Mamelodi Sundowns came away with all three Absa Premiership points in a 3-1 win against Orlando Pirates at the Orlando Stadium on Wednesday night. Kekana opened the scoring as early as the second minute in rather fortuitous circumstances. An attempted clearance by Pirates defender Abbubaker Mobara, from outside the box, ricocheted off the boot of Kekana, and the ball dribbled away from the flat-footed goalkeeper Wayne Sandilands, who was left embarrassed as he was unable to prevent the goal. It didn’t take long for Kekana to give Sundowns their second of the night, and this time it was all about his audacious shooting ability. READ: Sundowns eyeing Chiefs scalp The Bafana Bafana midfielder pulled off one of those special long-range efforts once more, which resembled the incredible goal he scored for the national team a few years ago. Seeing Sandilands off his line, Kekana fired from just inside the Masandawana half, and the Pirates goalkeeper could only help parry the ball into the net. At 2-0 up within 13 minutes, Sundowns were well on their way to victory. But Pirates certainly had their chances, and it was striker Thembinkosi Lorch who was the main culprit in missing those opportunities. READ: Pirates out to reverse three-year losing streak against Sundowns Lorch scuffed a shot wide in the 11th minute and was thwarted by the on-rushing Denis Onyango in first-half stoppage time. But leftback Marc van Heerden saved Pirates’ blushes in the 38th minute when he curled a free kick with his left boot past Onyango. The Buccaneers were right back in the mix going into halftime at 2-1, and they had great momentum in the second half. Both teams went toe-to-toe in a thrilling advertisement for South African football. But the miss of the night came from the industrious Thabo Qalinge in the 85th minute, when he was clear on goal and ballooned his shot over the top with just Onyango to beat. Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane would’ve breathed a sigh of relief after that, as his team secured all three league points with Laffor finishing in style with a stunning strike from a set-up by Themba Zwane in the third minute of stoppage time. African News Agency