KWAZULU-NATAL - The ANC's national executive committee has come under fire from a pro-Cyril Ramaphosa group in KwaZulu-Natal. The group says the NEC has failed to provide leadership and solve the political crisis in the province. This is the same group that had applied for the 2015 ANC provincial conference to be nullified by the Pietermaritzburg High Court. They now want the court to grant them an execution order, forcing the PEC to vacate the party's provincial offices immediately. READ: ANC prepares to dissolve KZN PEC The Cyril Ramaphosa lobby group says the ANC's national executive committee, and other top officials, simply don't have the political will to find an urgent and permanent solution to the problems facing the party in KwaZulu-Natal. They're even accusing the national office bearers of fanning the divisions in the provincial party structures. "National leadership have failed to guard and lead the process and challenges in KwaZulu-Natal…Their political indecisiveness to deal with the challenges and focus for themselves for only 2017 December elective conference leave much to be desired. Our major concern is lack of foresight of the national leadership beyond 2017," said Vukani Mdabe, CR17 KwaZulu-Natal Coordinator.  The group has, however, denied reports that it's planning to form a breakaway party. "I really think people are hallucinating. I can’t imagine given the wealth and the years of selflessness of all of us in the ANC, where one can think that we may leave the ANC. We will leave the ANC for the ANC. If that’s what they are talking about, yes, we will leave an era of a corrupt and manipulated processes of the ANC, for a good and genuine ANC," said S'thembiso Mshengu, CR17 Group Spokesperson. It claims over 80 branch general meeting disputes have been logged with provincial regional structures thus far.
	
	The group says despite the difficult political conditions it operates under, it's managed to secure 157 nominations for Ramaphosa in the province. eNCA