JOHANNESBURG – Economists say President Jacob Zuma’s directive for government to find R25-billion rand in spending cuts comes too late to avoid further downgrades. The president is also seeking R15-billion in revenue from tax hikes to help plug a R40-billion gap in government’s purse. An extra R15-billion in tax hikes added to the R15-billion already pencilled in for the February budget is the directive from President Jacob Zuma to Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba. “The cuts will affect all items of government, be it capital items, it will affect the administration, cuts across the departmental budgets in the national and provincial government spheres. It will also affect a number of other expenditure items in government and they are going to be hard because there is no department which is going to be left untouched,” Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba said. READ: South Africa slips into recession as economy shrinks Think-tank group Pesa says while the move aims to appease rating agencies, it's also political. “ To say that yes that president has got these two priorities in terms of nuclear and fees but at the same time he is aware of curbing the rising public debt," said Siya Biniza of the Political Economy of Southern Africa. “It’s  also to give a political bargain – especially leading up to December again, to fees must fall that we are looking into ways to fund it” Another economist believes moves to re-structure the economy would have been more convincing.  Higher taxes and cuts in spending on infrastructure, for example, could drastically hurt economic growth. “One way of actually doing it without affecting growth is to cut the dead wood in Parliament,” said Thabi Leoka of Argon Asset Management. “Make sure government is smaller – then you can raise wages. Because the increases then will not compromise the budget." READ: Ramaphosa unveils vision for SA economy The directive to cut spending comes as the queue at Treasury gets longer, with the likes of Eskom and Higher Education seeking increased funding. Cutting spending and raising taxes is only a small part of the fiscal solution. Economists insist growth-boosting reforms and confidence-raising measures are desperately needed to reverse our ratings trajectory. eNCA