JOHANNESBURG - Pieter "SupaPiet" Du Preez is a multiple African and World Record holder, a World Champion, and he only has 15 percent of the muscle function of an able-bodied person. Du Preez who was nominated for the Laureus World Sports Awards in 2016 and is currently nominated for the SA Sports Awards made history a couple months ago at the Berlin Marathon when he won it for the sixth time. "It's pretty awesome, and I don’t think people realise how everything needs to align for it to happen, so very much blessed with lots of grace from above. Special moments these said du Preez of the Berlin Marathon. The win was not an easy one for the record-breaking wheelchair racer, his racing chair was lost upon arrival in Frankfurt. The Para-athlete was not sure as to whether he would be able to defend his winning streak or have to sit it out due to a system failure at the airport. He recalls the emotions as he waited for the racing chair to be found. "Obviously, frustration, as I was going for number six in a row and not getting it due to a lost racing chair would really have been annoying. They couldn’t track it but I think due to a system failure in Frankfurt on arrival there, a whole container got lost as it wasn’t just my luggage missing. All is well that ends well, as they say." The Quadraplegic who has won the Oita International wheelchair marathon race two times in a row and broke the 2016 course record was, unfortunately, unable to defend his title this past weekend due to bad weather in Japan. He was the first quadriplegic to complete an Ironman and has his sights set on new records. "Always, that’s what keeps you chasing life to the full! English channel swim, marathon world records, sub 12 Ironmans and hopefully a Kona, Tokyo 2020 if my eyesight allows me and of course being a great Dad are all on there". SupaPiet feels the media doe not give enough media coverage to para-athletes especially quads and it, therefore, missing out on great sporting history. " There are two sides, for a small few, they sometimes blow things way too much out of proportion but in general no and for my class and quads, in general, they have in most cases missed some of the histories greatest para-sports moments. But it’s a tough one, as some athletes really aren’t professional yet and some are, either way, more exposure will help equalise these imbalances in coverage as more knowledge will be gained on para-sports. The para-athlete says the government doesn't give enough support to sports in general, it only gives to a selected few and that his very happy that the new minister of sport has said the will be rationalised spending on this years SA Sport Awards because after all sports is about the accolades more than the money. "Well, speaking for myself, no, but that said, proportionately this is an equal problem in able-bodied sport as well.I would be happy to struggle on if I knew that its because the money goes towards more important matters like education, but I fear this might not be the case. I was quite happy to hear the new minister off sport saying they have rationalised spending on this years SA Sport awards. I personally feel it's a step in the right direction. It should be more about the accolade than the money... again, my view." The para-cycling World Champion says it in order to make it as a great athlete you need to understand the importance of teamwork and support and that you need to build yourself up in order to make your dreams happen. - Palesa Manaleng eNCA