LONDON - Bulgaria's Grigor Dimitrov raced into the semi-finals of the ATP Finals with a 6-0, 6-2 demolition of David Goffin on Wednesday. Dimitrov has never quite lived up to his billing as the heir to Roger Federer's throne, but the world number six's eye-catching rout of Goffin was a reminder he is still young and gifted enough to finally make the breakthrough. Simply sublime from @GrigorDimitrov... #NittoATPFinals pic.twitter.com/NHgfGkpPZZ The 26-year-old unloaded 18 winners to dismiss the Belgian world number eight at London's O2 Arena and seal his spot in the last four with one match to play. Dimitrov, who defeated Dominic Thiem in three sets in his Pete Sampras group opener, has already made history as the first Bulgarian to qualify for the season-ending Tour finals. While Roger Federer remains the title favourite following Rafael Nadal's injury withdrawal, Dimitrov will fancy his chances of becoming the first debutant winner since Alex Corretja in 1998. "You get a few days out of the year that whatever you touch turns to gold and that was the first set," Dimitrov said. "You work for those days, it's nice when it comes in such an occasion. It's a special win for me. "My goal was to reach the weekend. I'm not here just to participate." Goffin, another first time Tour Finals qualifier, had made a flying start with his dramatic three-set victory over Nadal on Monday. Signed, sealed and delivered... --#NittoATPFinals @GrigorDimitrov pic.twitter.com/0gPV9rdlfX But that victory was slightly devalued as the world number one, who was struggling with a knee injury, pulled out of the tournament after the match. Now Goffin will have to win his last group match against Thiem to have a chance of joining Dimitrov in the semi-finals. "It was not easy for me to lose my serve at the start. It was tough for my confidence after that," Goffin said. "He was better today. I don't think it's because it was a long match against Rafa. It's just that Grigor played well." World number two Federer, aiming for his seventh Tour Finals title, has already qualified for the last four from Boris Becker group after winning his first two matches. Dominant Dimitrov One of Alexander Zverev or Jack Sock, who face each other on Thursday after Federer takes on Marin Cilic, will advance with the Swiss as the second qualifier from the Becker group. Dimitrov had won three of his four previous meetings with Goffin and he was quick to establish control once again. Making his debut appearance in London, @GrigorDimitrov is relishing the moment. "I can't hide my smile. It's a dream come true." #NittoATPFinals
		
		More ➡️ https://t.co/ToEQQG7Jw7 pic.twitter.com/ARMR7NcqjI Goffin had a strapping around his left knee and Dimitrov immediately tested his mobility, moving Goffin around the court with some deft groundstrokes, and landed an early blow with a break in the second game of the first set. Dimitrov dominated from the baseline, breaking twice more to take the set in just 27 minutes, and carried his dominance into the second set, racing into a 3-0 lead after winning nine games in a row. The Belgian avoided the embarrassment of a total whitewash and drew mocking cheers from the crowd in the 10th game as he finally held his serve. Later on Wednesday, Spain's Pablo Carreno Busta makes his Tour Finals debut against Thiem after replacing the injured Nadal. AFP