JOHANNESBURG - Demetria Obilor had been a traffic news anchor for only two weeks, but news watchers and social media users in America were quick to body shame the 26-year-old. A female viewer who watches the news on Channel 8, WFAA-TV in Dallas, Texas, commented on Obilor in a Facebook post saying: "She's a size 16/18 woman in a size 6 dress and she looks ridiculous. I understand that when I watch Channel 8 I'm going to get biased reporting and political correctness, but clearly they have taken complete leave of their senses. I'm not going to watch Channel 8 anymore." Social media is often an easy platform for millions of people around the world to body shame others, however there is a growing awareness around body shaming, with thousands coming to the defence of individuals who are attacked online. Those who are attacked are also rarely backing down and speak out about being bullied and shamed. Obilor’s incident went viral after Chance the Rapper tweeted about the incident, quoting the ranting viewers post. Obilor also took a stand in an inspiring video, which she posted on her Twitter profile, responding to her body shamers as well as those who came to her defence. Closer to home, body shaming recently came to the fore at SA Fashion Week, when photographer and plus-size model Lesego "Thickleeyonce" Legobane received online hate after walking the runway. Body shamers criticised Legobane for her weight and the way she walked. Sadly, the hateful messages affected her to the point that she cried until she vomited, but it was not long before she bounced back, deciding not to respond to haters, but rather continue to live her life in a way that makes her happy, while ignoring the opinions of others. In another incident, pop singer Penny Penny was recently called out for body shaming his wife.  Viewers of his reality show Papa Penny Ahee expressed their dissatisfaction when he told his wife that he did not want a "boom boom wife", but rather just a "boom wife". Penny responded to these claims saying it was unscripted banter between him and his wife on their reality show, adding that everyone should joke with their wives. A social media user also saw it from this point of view. eNCA