JOHANNESBURG – Midfielder Dean Furman is confident Bafana Bafana will rise to the occasion when they take on Senegal on Friday night at the Peter Mokaba stadium, in the first of two crucial FIFA World Cup qualifiers. Furman said on the SAFA website that the team has had good training sessions this week and most of the players have shown some amazing fighting spirit and sharpness. “There has been a good buzz in the camp during the week and in any case in most cases Bafana Bafana rises to the occasion in such big matches. If we execute our game plan according to our full potential, we should beat Senegal. We have proven it in the past that we can beat anyone,” said Furman. “We always respond in big games like these. These are the top end of any big game; these are the games which have been in our minds for some time. These are the games to show up,” he said adding people talk about Senegal’s superstars but forget about South Africa’s potential. “The stakes are high and we will give everything. At times emotions run high when we play in these big games but we must maintain our discipline.” READ: Khune back in training ahead of crunch qualifiers According to SAFA, coach Stuart Baxter is happy with the vibrant atmosphere in the camp. "The players have worked really well; there has not been any shred of tension within the team. The team has really been in good space,” he said. Baxter also stated that he is not worried about Senegal superstar Sadio Mane. “We are not worried about Sadio Mane; he is a good player yes, make no mistake but if we are to listen to what we hear of him then we are a beaten team. But that is not how football works. We respect him yes but we won’t give him any special treatment,” he said. Baxter said he was happy with his backline, midfield and the potential upfront. “We are not going to bemoan the players we miss, we have an array of good players and if we put everything into this game, we have what it takes to win this game,” he said. Meanwhile, captain Thulani ‘Tyson’ Hlatshwayo looks likely to miss Friday’s World Cup qualifier against Senegal through injury.  Hlatshwayo has been training with a bruised toe this week and faces a late fitness test ahead of the must-win match. Baxter said on Thursday that it would be a big gamble if he plays, and the 28-year-old Bidvest Wits skipper is therefore not expected to feature on Friday, although he may come into the reckoning for the return game in Dakar next Tuesday.
	
	Tough-tackling Hlatshwayo’s leadership and communication skills will be missed, but SuperSport United duo Clayton Daniels and Morgan Gould started the last match for Bafana, the 3-1 win over Burkina Faso, and performed admirably, and they are equally physical and committed central defenders. Kaizer Chiefs’ Erick Mathoho provides another solid option. There is hope that goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune may still take part in the match at the Peter Mokaba Stadium. The Amakhosi man came through a couple of training sessions without much issue while wearing a mask to protect the facial bone he fractured on the weekend.   
	 It remains in midfield where Baxter’s biggest concerns lies as Andile Jali and Bongani Zungu are both suspended, while Hlompho Kekana is doubtful after he left the camp to attend to a family bereavement. Thulani Serero, meanwhile, seems to have ended his international career after refusing to travel from his base in Holland unless he was guaranteed a starting berth.
		
		South Africa must win both games against Senegal to qualify for the World Cup in Russia next year. - Additional reporting ANA - eNCA