CAPE TOWN - The damage caused by the fire which has raged in the mountains above Gordon’s Bay is already into the tens of millions of rands, with the final cost set to be significantly higher. Mayoral Committee Member for Safety and Security and Social Services JP Smith said on Wednesday: “First rough estimate of damages is R38-million, but the final figure is likely to be quite a bit higher.” The fire raged over two days and destroyed a number of dwellings as well as an animal shelter and the City of Cape Town Fire and Rescue Services was on Wednesday still working hard to a number of fires across the peninsula. According to the City, there are currently two areas of fire that is still of concern in Gordon’s Bay, with 17 fire and rescue services vehicles on scene, five skid units, as well as two water tankers and approximately 60 ground crews. Firefighting crews from City Biodioversity, Working on Fire and Overberg Fire & Rescue, as well as Cape Nature, were involved. Smith said both the N2 and R44 roads had been reopened with the assistance of traffic officers. An Incident Management Team (IMT) is being scaled as of Wednesday evening while other resources will remain on the scene to monitor conditions and to attend to any possible flare-ups. “SAPS indicated that criminals attempted to break into three of the fire-damaged houses, but very active neighbourhood watch members intercepted their attempts and are pursuing would-be robbers. “Forecast for wind is around 20 km/h both today and tomorrow which makes the situation more manageable,” Smith added. The fire damaged ten private properties, three private vehicles, one private truck, two factories, two outdoor storage stores and although the electricity supply was affected it has not been damaged. Meanwhile, in Simon’s Town there has huge vegetation fire burning. “Active firefighting taking place and crews will be on the scene for quite some time,” Smith said. The fire does not pose an immediate threat to property and fire crews have been placed on standby to prevent it from spreading to any households. There are five fire engines, four water tankers, 28 seasonal firefighter, and countless support vehicles on scene. Smith added: “Two Oryx helicopters from Air-force and two helicopters form TMNP are busy with aerial firefighting. Only Navy has suffered damages, this includes about five magazines, storerooms and other facilities.” Red Hill Road remains closed due to the smoke hazard. Elsewhere, a fire in Atlantis on Otto du Plessis Drive was also being attended to while a building in Darling Street building had also caught alight. African News Agency