 JOHANNESBURG - EFC 65 was an event that had everything, from spectacular knock-outs to outlandish submissions, with a healthy dose of opinion-splitting controversy. And even though there were six decision victories, only one of the 11 bouts was left wanting in spectacularity. I’ll deal with some of these later but for now I want to crack on with the main talking point of the evening, which was the controversial contestation for the light-heavyweight belt between incumbent Dalcha Lungiambula and the challenger, Stuart Austin. In the first round, the Englishman made the Congolese giant look ordinary in all areas, with his well-gauged striking from range setting up an effortless takedown, transitioning to mount from which he rained down unanswered ground and pound for the best part of a minute. Referee Ferdi Basson repeatedly instructed Dalcha to defend himself, which in fairness he did by striking back and tightening his elbow guard as Austin intensified his barrage even further, opening up a gash on the champ's forehead. Despite Dalcha being completely trapped and pounded out, the clock ran down ‘till the sounding of the bell. A bloodied and wobbly Champion just about made it to his stool. The second round was a polaroid negative of the first. A drained and dejected Austin came out of his corner looking like a mugging victim, got taken down and mounted and in half the time spent receiving murderous fist-falls as the first was saved by an intervening Basson, who had seen enough of Austin’s head banging off the canvas. One of the best refs in the business, Basson has laudably taken to social media to explain his decision, contextualising the defences of each fighter in the time they had available in each round and according to the rulebook is technically spot on in his reasoning. He also adjudged Austin to be defending himself far less than Dalcha did, even though at the stoppage the Londoner was shrimping and hip-bumping. However, if the fight would have been called off in the first, I don’t think anyone would’ve complained. It’s completely subjective and a fascinating conversation piece. If you’re an Austin fan, it’s a robbery; if you’re a Dalcha fan, it was the comeback of the century. My takeaway from this fight is two-fold – if I were a fighter I would want Basson overseeing my safety in the same way he oversaw Stuart’s, and secondly, a rematch is the only subsequent bout that makes sense for either fighter. This suggestion was immediately welcomed by Austin at the post-event press conference and immediately refused by Dalcha. Two reactions that speak volumes.  The co-main witnessed the return of fan favourite Boyd Allen, FFM’s striking phenom who possesses more angles than a bevel protractor, the footwork of Fred Astaire and the head movement of gas molecules in a vacuum. In a clinical dismantling of Scotland’s Calum Murrie, "Sneaky" put on a masterclass of pugilism, denying the ground enticement of the 10th Planet brown belt and reminding the crowd of why his jab is the nastiest in the business. Murrie, as we’d expect from the lads coming out of Higher Level in Whitburn, was classy in defeat with nothing but warm words for his opponent and his time here in South Africa. He will be welcomed back eagerly and, as Allen said post-fight, he’s going to cause a lot of problems for the featherweights upon that return. As for Allen, nothing other than a crack at former teammate Kabesa’s belt will do.  Deon Bruning exhibited his outstanding Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu in the first round against Gavin Hughes, with effortless transitions denying the lad from Wigan any framing opportunities. The second saw the tourist tee-off with some well-timed and tight kickboxing that may have contributed to Bruning's knee injury, which took its toll through to the end of the third. Hughes rightly took the decision but Bruning showed that he’s probably got the most dangerous jits in the 70kg division.  Taking a short notice fight from the other side of the planet is always a tough ask, but the bubbly and gutsy Magno Alves from Rio de Janeiro was more than willing to cross the Atlantic to face the mercurial Bokang Masunyane. It was a painful trip, however, with Masunyane planting the BJJ black belt on his posterior on multiple occasions in the first, out-wrestling him in the second, and maintaining stifling top-control in the third to set up the GnP followed by some truly outlandish flying kicks, including his patented Eddy Gordo capoeira double-leg spinning back-kick. Surely a shot at Zulu gold is on the horizon for the 'Little Giant'.  I mentioned briefly in my introduction one bout that failed to flame the fan fire and that was the main-card-opening heavyweight bout between former title contender Elvis Moyo and Nico Yamdjie. Three cautious rounds ensued, with Moyo eventually winning it by split decision, probably on account of his intermittent jab, but it was a tepid lumbering affair completely out-of-kilter with the entire event. As a late replacement I forgive Yamdjie’s hesitancy, but Elvis never got stuck in and now has a win/loss record striped like a Christmas candy cane that certainly ain’t as sweet. Conversely, the undercard was a cracker with each fighter deserving of mention. Debutantes Wade Kerspuy and Serge Kasanda put on great first showings despite their losses to Guy Mongambi and Francois Cundari respectively. The latter victor with a sweet triangle choke. Fight of the Night honours went to Faaez Jacobs and Oumpie Sebeko for a superb stand-up clash that was going in Sebeko’s favour until he stumbled back from a left hook in the second round which gave Jacobs the space in which to launch a spectacular jumping front kick to the face. A couple of follow-ups convinced the referee to wave it off.  Luke Michael returned after a 16-month layoff with an awesome first-round submission over Roderique Kena. Slapping on a triangle from mount before rolling into the more conventional triangle from the bottom, the newest addition to the FFM stable took the tap almost three minutes in. Pierre Botha put his loss to Kabesa behind him with a unanimous-decision win over Sibusiso Mdoko, the latter fighting for the first time in 2017. While it's now his fifth straight loss he put on a very competitive show, with his defensive wrestling against such a decorated grappler like Botha being particularly impressive. Botha was never allowed to transition to full mount or to any meaningful submission set-up positions and even though he tested Sibo’s chin quite a few times he never put the man from Parklands in any real trouble. Finally, Regis Muyambo had the better of Sindile Manengela in a superb scrap that was close all the way to the bell, with Frostie taking the split decision. The Cape-based Zimbo is now on a two-fight tear while snapping Manengela’s own pair. 
	The official EFC 65 results are:
	Guy Mongambi defeated Wade Kerspuy via TKO (Punches) 4:27 in round 3.
	Francois Cundari defeated Serge Kasanda via submission (Triangle) 0:34 in round 1.
	Faeez Jacobs defeated Oumpie Sebeko via TKO (Punches) 4:14 in round 2.
	Luke Michael defeated Rodrique Kena via submission (Triangle) 2:56 in round 1.
	Pierre Botha defeated Sibusiso Mdoko unanimous decision.
	Regis Muyambo defeated Sindile Manengela via split decision.
	Elvis Moyo defeated Nico Yamdjie via split decision.
	Bokang Masunyane defeat Magno Alves via unanimous decision.
	Gavin Hughes defeated Deon Bruning via unanimous decision.
	Boyd Allen defeated Calum Murrie unanimous decision.
	Champion Dalcha defeated Stuart Austin via TKO (Punches) 1:48 in round 2. eNCA