PRETORIA – The Tshwane mayor’s official residence has been sold for R5.1-million, the municipality announced on Thursday. The five-bedroom mayoral mansion, which is situated in the suburb of Muckleneuk, was auctioned off well above its reserve price of R4.8-million. @CityTshwane Mayoral residence sold for R5.1 million from a reserve price of R4.8 million. #MayoralHouseAuction pic.twitter.com/XtGwUSsQuJ Since being sworn in as the capital city’s mayor in August 2016, Solly Msimanga has never lived in the house. Msimanga said the sale of the mansion will provide approximately 52 RDP houses, inclusive of land and services. Media interviews after the Mayoral House Auction pic.twitter.com/OTxX4NiMIC READ: Gauteng premier's house up for sale He insisted that selling and disposing of the city’s properties should not be a norm, however, in this instance his administration was forced to do such. “The DA-led multiparty administration made it very clear when we took office last year that it will prioritise the needs of the Tshwane residents and cut down on all things we deemed to be frivolous,” Msimanga said. “After being voted in as the political head of the City of Tshwane, I refused to move into the Mayoral Mansion because I have long maintained, even during my days on opposition benches, that corrupt activities took place with respect to that house by the former ANC administration. “I therefore thank the successful bidder for helping us help the people of Tshwane by taking this property off our hands so we may tend to our core business, which is to help our people live a better life of dignity.” READ: Makhura: Don't wait for government to build you a house The suburb of Muckleneuk is home to embassies, the homes of consuls-general and is a walking distance to the University of South Africa. The property is close to public sites such as the Union Buildings, Freedom Park, Church Square and the Voortrekker Monument. Loftus Versveld Stadium is also within easy reach of Muckleneuk. eNCA