JOHANNESBURG - The families of the five children who died in Soshanguve on Saturday are still in shock. The kids, aged between five and 12, were crushed to death when a light mast fell on them. A probe is under way to get to the bottom of what happened. The father of one of children killed in the incident said he was on his way home from work on Saturday when he was told that his nine-year-old daughter Lethabo, was among the five children killed when a light mast fell on seven kids,  who were playing in the street. A grieving father combing the scene where his daughter took her last breath. READ: Two scrapyard owners copped for stolen copper "She was a good girl who liked playing. Her mom died a month ago. Lethabo was very good with her school work," said Thabo Lebese, bereaved father. Tsholofelo and Dimakatso Bopapi have each lost a child. The grief stricken sisters are still in a state of disbelief.  "I am not ok, I feel weak. But, I have to be strong for them," said Susan Bopapi, grandmother. Bopapi said her five-year old granddaughter Mpho, was about to graduate from pre-school. "She was excited about the graduation. She was in Grade R and was going to do Grade 1 next year." Bopapi says the light mast had been giving them problems for some time. "For a long time, we have been reporting the streetlight to the municipality. A technician came, checked and said everything was fine. They took the lights up again, then the Nyaope boys tempered with them. When the technicians came back to look at the damage, they found that there were cable missing, and they just left it as it is." On Monday, Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga was blocked by some residents, from visiting the bereaved families - a move he's described as politically driven. The ANC in Tshwane says it'll write to Premier David Makhura to help probe the events leading up to Saturday's tragedy. As the families mourn, the municipality says preliminary findings so far point to cable theft as the cause of the accident. eNCA