JOHANNESBURG - Warrick Gelant and Dan du Preez are in line to make their first Test starts for the Springboks in this Saturday’s encounter against Wales in Cardiff. For most of the end-of-year tour, Bok coach Allister Coetzee has stuck with a conservative, but consistent selection policy that has seen minimal unforced changes being made. That appears set to be the case once again for this Saturday’s season-ending clash, although one interesting move could see Gelant promoted from the bench to start his first Test in place of Courtnall Skosan on the left wing. READ: Boks determined to deliver in season finale Gelant enjoyed a decent cameo when he made his Bok debut off the bench against Italy last weekend, and although he is more commonly recognised as a fullback, the word from the ground in Cardiff suggests he has been training on the wing this week. Gelant’s inclusion in the starting lineup is set to be the only change to the backline, but there could be an opening on the bench for Lukhanyo Am, who is one of the unfortunate players who has yet to feature on tour. The real question mark over selection this week comes in the back row now that both Duane Vermeulen and Francois Louw have returned to their overseas-based clubs as this Test falls outside of the international window. Vermeulen’s absence is likely to see Du Preez start for the first time at No 8 after featuring off the bench in the last two Tests, while one spot on the flank is sure to go to Siya Kolisi, who has returned from paternity leave. However, it remains to be seen whether Coetzee opts to start Pieter-Steph du Toit or Uzair Cassiem at blindside flank, with the former likely to crack the nod. READ: Boks welcome back fit-again Marx and Kolisi for Wales Test There are set to be two more changes up front, where fit-again Malcolm Marx will reclaim the No 2 jersey from Bongi Mbonambi, while loosehead prop Steven Kitshoff is likely to replace Beast Mtawarira, who has been struggling with injury. With minimal unforced changes expected to be made this week, it means that talented utility back Curwin Bosch will have missed out on any opportunity to receive any game time despite his inclusion in the Bok squad for this end-of-year tour. Similarly, his Sharks teammates Louis Schreuder and Am have yet to feature on tour, and now it remains to be seen whether the latter may belatedly receive a limited opportunity off the bench. Raymond Rhule is another player who has remained out of favour, while loose-forward Oupa Mohoje and lock Ruan Botha have also remained unused, although there is the possibility that these two forwards could win a spot on the bench this Saturday. Unfortunately, the Boks have once again missed an opportunity to build any real depth on this tour. African News Agency