PIETERMARITZBURG - Advocacy group Equal Education has hailed the Pietermaritzburg High Court’s ruling on Tuesday that the KwaZulu-Natal education department must roll out transport for pupils in Nquthu, in the north of the province. The court ordered the department to provide the transport by April next year. Equal Education had applied for the ruling, saying scores of children faced dangers each day when walking long distances to school because of a lack of transport. The advocacy group said the ruling would enable pupils to focus on their studies. “Because of this, learners qualifying for scholar transport in the 12 Nquthu schools will have more time for teaching and learning in the classroom, for homework, and for rest. It means freedom from the burden of walking long, exhausting and dangerous routes to and from school every morning and afternoon,” said Equal Education spokesman Mila Kakaza.  Judge Trevor Gorven said the education department and the transport department must report back to the court on 1 April 2018 to provide information on the status of the KZN scholar transport policy; the plans that the two departments will make to address the issue of scholar transport in the province more broadly, and the criteria used to determine the need for the provision of scholar transport; and the alternative modes of transport that the two departments will consider. READ: Children killed in Gauteng taxi crash A 13-year-old pupil, who was one of the learners that waved placards outside court, said it was difficult to concentrate at school as he walked long distances to get to school. His daily trip to Bongumenzi Secondary School meant leaving home at 5.30am to make it to school on time. Many of the pupils said this was their routine. The department said it would go through the ruling. “We are going to study it and we remain committed to provide learner transport to deserving learners,” said department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa. Transport for scholars has come under sharp focus in recent weeks and months, especially when pupils have been injured while taking vans and bakkies to school.
	  African News Agency