JOHANNESBURG - Another Member of Parliament (MP) involved in the Eskom state capture inquiry has been threatened and intimidated. Democratic Alliance (DA) MP, Natasha Mazzone says her office was ransacked and her car followed. READ: DA calls for protection of members on Eskom inquiry Meanwhile, the ANC in Parliament wants police to investigate allegations that State Security Minister, Bogani Bongo tried to bribe the inquiry’s evidence leader to shut the process down. Mazzone says she can’t keep quiet any longer about the harassment she’s been receiving since sitting on Parliament’s Eskom Inquiry. Inquiry chairperson, Zukiswa Rantho’s son in Aliwal North was told by several men "your mother is making life difficult for us." Both MPs have filed complaints with the Speaker of Parliament and because Parliament has a duty to protect its staff police will be called in to provide protection while they conduct a threat assessment. Parliament's spokesperson, Moloto Mothopo said: “Any form of intimidation is a criminal offence in terms of the powers and privileges act and the perpetrators may be arrested and spend time in prison, so usually, when the Speaker gets these kinds of concerns she takes it very seriously.” The Black First Land First group also threatened to shut down the inquiry when it first started. Evidence leader Ntuthuzelo Vanara has had bodyguards ever since. Now Vanara claims State Security Minister Bongo tried to bribe him to stop the inquiry when Bongo was an ordinary MP. According to Nonceba Mhlauli of the African National Congress (ANC) Parliamentary caucus, ‘Where there are criminal acts that have taken place, the relevant authorities must do their work in that regard.” While the State Security Minister may end up being the subject of a police bribery investigation, Parliament’s ethics committee will investigate whether Bongo should be sanctioned as a member of Parliament. The inquiry will not sit this week but the Gupta brothers and Duduzane Zuma have been invited to testify in the first week of December.
	  eNCA