JOHANNESBURG – The family of Thembisile Yende, the Eskom employee who was murdered in May, said on Wednesday that they would be looking at opening a civil case against the power utility. Yende’s body was found at Eskom’s Pieterboth substation more than a week after her family reported her missing. READ: Murder accused in Yende case back in court She was allegedly killed because of fears she would blow the whistle on a copper cable theft syndicate. “As a family, we have considered opening a case against Eskom because Thembisile had a child,” said Yende’s brother Mboneni Yende, after court proceedings. David Ngwenya, 43, a technician at Eskom, was arrested for the murder in June and appeared in the Springs Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. During court proceedings, defence lawyer Zola Majavu told the court that he had been informed that Ngwenya’s DNA results were released in October. Majavu was adamant that the DNA report would exonerate Ngwenya. “I’m in possession of video footage and a DNA report from October and there is another one outstanding and it would be revealed at a later stage. People will be surprised when the truth comes out”, he said after court adjourned. Earlier the state said that they couldn’t confirm whether Ngwenya was implicated via DNA or not as there were many samples linked to the matter and they would only be able to furnish the defence with the results by the end of the year. Majavu said a bail application on new facts would be brought forward. The state added that once investigations were finalised the matter would be transferred to the high court. The case was postponed to 31 January for further investigations. The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (NUMSA) spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi said outside court: “As NUMSA we are concerned about the safety of employees as many people are aware that Thembisile Yende’s death was suspicious.” “As a result of her death NUMSA has requested the department of labour to look into the matter and those connected will be found and prosecuted.” African News Agency