JOHANNESBURG - The Gauteng provincial government has announced a high-level team tasked with improving the functioning of the provincial health department. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi, Gauteng Premier David Makhura, and Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa made the announcement on Sunday. Makhura says the department's deterioration escalated last year as the Life Esidimeni tragedy unfolded. A department that has been rocked by one tragedy after the other now has a new team to oversee its turnaround strategy. The new team has a massive task on its hands. WATCH: Manamela back on Esidimeni witness stand It will need to revamp human resources, procurement processes and the entire healthcare delivery system.  The team will consist of former and present medical academics and administrators. These are the people who will oversee the strategy: 1. Professor Mkhululi Lukhele A professor of orthopaedics at Wits University. He has just completed his term as the Head of the Wits School of Clinical Medicine. 2. Professor Craig Househam A retired professor of paediatrics and child health. He is the longest serving Head of Department in the public service, starting first as HOD in the Department of Health in the Free State in 1995 and later as an HOD in the Western Cape Department of Health from 2002 to 2015 where he retired. 
	
	3. Doctor Edith Mntla
	
	A part-time senior lecturer at Sefako Makgatho Health Sciences University with a doctoral degree in nursing. 
	
	4. Ms Nomvula Marawa
	
	A nurse by profession, she worked as a director of policy development and system in the national Department of Health. She also worked as a technical advisor on health systems in the national Treasury. She served in the Ministerial Advisory Committee on Health and is currently a member of the Health Ministerial National Health Insurance Restructuring Committee. Minister of Health Aaron Motsoaledi said the group, with the expertise of Treasury's former deputy director general Michael Sachs, will work on getting the department to perform effectively. “In recent days it has emerged that there are critical inadequacies in the capacities and capabilities and competencies to run the system, this management and incapacities have been exposed by the Life Esidimeni tragedy,” said Motsoaledi. Motsoaledi said it is clear that Gauteng Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa will need help to improve the department. “Even with her experience it's clear that she can’t turn around the department on her own. She needs a high-level quality management team to turn the fortunes of the department around. It's for this reason today that we are announcing an intervention team."  eNCA