JOHANNESBURG – Bidvest Wits’ miserable start to their league title defence continued when they lost 0-2 to Mamelodi Sundowns at the Bidvest Stadium on Tuesday night.
	 
	Both goals were scored by Khama Billiat in a second half in which Sundowns were for the most part at their exhilarating best, something which has not been seen too often of them this season.
	 
	There were good chances for both sides in what was an open an exciting opening half in Johannesburg.  
	The Brazilians appeared rather fortunate to not concede a penalty after only seven minutes when Reeve Frosler’s shot seemed to hit defender Tebogo Langerman’s arm inside the box.
	 
	The Tshwane team were close to scoring 10 minutes later when a blistering counter-attack set Thapelo  Morena in on goal, but Clever Boys keeper Darren Keet made a brilliant reflex save to stop the stinging shot.
	 
	The defending champions’ best opportunity of the half fell to Daine Klate on 33 minutes, but he failed to get any contact on Elias Pelembe’s cross with the goal at his mercy. READ: Sundowns beat Casablanca, takes lead into second leg Sibusiso Vilakazi was closest to breaking the deadlock when his powerful drive from 20-yards skimmed off the crossbar seven minutes before the interval.
	 
	After Percy Tau had fired over from a good position two minutes after halftime, Sundowns midfielder Hlompho Kekana was not far off the mark with what would have been a sensational, and typical, shot from more than 50-yards out.  
	The pressure paid dividends in the 62nd minute when Tau’s pin-point cross allowed Billiat a simple low finish at the far post.
	 
	Vilakazi should have added a second 10 minutes later, but he was ponderous in front of goal and the chance went to waste.
	 
	Things got worse for Gavin Hunt’s men when an arm injury saw Pelembe’s night ended 20 minutes from time as he was rushed off to the hospital.
	 
	Keet then made a point-blank save from the wasteful Vilakazi before Tau had a goal ruled out for off-sides as Sundowns continued to threaten.
	 
	Wits seemed though to have lost all spirit and the second goal finally arrived eight minutes from time when a reinvigorated Billiat sprinted down the left before lashing in a shot across Keet and in at the far post.  African News Agency