JOHANNESBURG - It’s been a tough week for South African rugby. After suffering a humiliating record-breaking defeat to Ireland in Dublin, South Africa’s bid for the 2023 Rugby World Cup ended in tears as the World Rugby Council went against the recommendation of World Rugby, voting instead for France to host the finals. Putting aside the disappointment of missing out on the Rugby World Cup, South Africa’s on-field performances are a huge point of concern at the moment. Leading SA bookmakers, BET.co.za have installed France as favourites to inflict another defeat on Allistair Coetzee’s beleaguered Boks. The under fire coach has made no fewer than 10 changes to his team in a bid to resurrect their fortunes, with the indomitable Duane Vermeulen returning to the fold, while Handre Pollard has been handed the No 10 jersey for the first time since the 2015 World Cup. READ: Boks make 10 changes to match-day squad France, on the other hand, have opted for the same starting XV that pushed the All Blacks last week on the back of a spirited second-half showing. The French looked a far cry from the side that was soundly beaten during the June Tests in South Africa. Back home in front of a passionate French crowd they will prove a very different proposition. Can the Boks bounce back and get their end-of-year tour back on track, or will the French build on last week’s promising showing? BET.co.za have decided to take a closer look at the statistics and pulled out a few interesting bets for the match. Antoine Dupont to score a try anytime – 5/1
	The 21-year-old scrumhalf had a full debut to remember against the All Blacks last Saturday. Dupont was easily the best player on the pitch during the second half, causing all sorts of problems for the All Black defence with his sniping runs and silky offloads. The South African fringe defence has been susceptible this season and Dupont will be hoping to capitalize. France to win by 1-12 points – 2/1
	While South Africa’s record in France is better than their overall record – they have won 69% of games in France against 66% overall – they have suffered defeat in two of their last three visits. Both those losses came within the 12-point margin and with an improved performance expected, a narrow French victory looks the most probable outcome. Handre Pollard to score a try anytime – 11/2
	Once touted as the future of South African rugby, Pollard has endured a tough time with injuries over the past two seasons. He returns to the No 10 jersey this week in a bid to add some much-needed dynamism to the Bok backline. His ability to take the ball to the line makes him a dangerous proposition and if the Bok pack can dominate upfront, he’ll be provided the time and space to cause damage.
	
	Bet on all the biggest international rugby matches with BET.co.za