PRETORIA – The Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital in Pretoria has for the second time declared matricide accused Mark Zinde fit to stand trial after he spent almost three months at the institution under mental observation. Zinde, who is accused of killing his TV personality mother Hope Zinde, appeared briefly in the high court in Pretoria on Monday. His legal representative, Francois Joubert, said they were not happy with the report and asked the court to have Zinde re-examined by an independent psychiatrist at the hospital unit of the Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre where the accused is being held. READ: Zinde's son suspected of her murder Zinde has been charged with murder, drug possession, assault, and attempted murder. The 24-year-old is accused of killing his 50-year-old mother in June last year. Hope Zinde is a former SABC board member, journalist, and television news anchor. He was subsequently released on R10,000 bail in September, but was re-arrested in November 2016 for allegedly attacking his father, Dr Lebohang Manoto, at his Walkerville home, south of Johannesburg. The State charged him with assault with the intention to cause grievous bodily harm and attempted murder. The State alleges that he killed his mother at their home in Pecanwood Estate, Hartbeespoort Dam, near Brits. Her body was found on June 11, 2016, inside the boot of her car. He was referred to undergo psychiatric evaluation at the Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital following his arrest. The initial assessment report from the hospital declared that he was fit to stand trial and he was capable of understanding court proceedings. The report further stated that he did not suffer from any mental disorder when he allegedly killed his mother. His re-admission was based on the assault and attempted murder charges he faces stemming from his father’s attack. In December, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) agreed to centralise the two cases. Zinde’s legal representative and his family have constantly insisted that he was not in his right mind when he allegedly killed his mother. The matter has been postponed to May 14, 2018. African News Agency