JOHANNESBURG – Two people have been arrested for impersonating the City of Johannesburg’s fraud and corruption top cop Shadrack Sibiya. A suspect was arrested on Wednesday night and his co-accused, an inmate, was also charged. He was appointed in November 2016 to lead Johannesburg’s independent anti-corruption unit. The City of Johannesburg says the inmate, who is serving an 18-year sentence for rape at the Zonderwater Correctional Services in Pretoria, masterminded the crime by pretending to be Sibiya. The pair allegedly demanded R150,000 from Mbali McClare in ensuring that her pending case with the city disappeared. READ: 'Mgqumeni' impersonator gets 22 year sentence McClare, a former candidate valuer, was arrested earlier this year for allegedly undervaluing 22 properties in the city, amounting to just under R500-million. “After receiving the phone call from the inmate, McClare contacted the Hawks, who then contacted GFIS and a trap was set up for the suspect who was meant to collect the money in Midrand,” Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba said.  “An undercover cop who pretended to be McClare’s partner was given R5,000.  The money was then handed to the suspect, the Hawks and GFIS team pounced on the suspect.  The suspect was then interrogated and revealed that he was working with an inmate. “A phone call was then made by the suspect to the inmate informing him that he received R75,000. The inmate then instructed that the suspect take R30,000 and take R45,000 to his wife who is based in Soshanguve. “The Hawks then proceeded to his wife in Soshanguve and she confirmed that she was expecting R45,000 from her husband who is in prison. The wife then led the Hawks to the prison where her husband is detained.” READ: O’Sullivan to appear in court for IPID officer impersonation Mashaba further revealed that the cellphone was used in the perpetration of the crime was seized from the inmate. The suspects are due at the Johannesburg Commercial Crimes Court on Thursday on charges of fraud and corruption. eNCA