> Editor’s note: This live stream has been ended due to technical problems. We apologise for the incoonvenience. TSHWANE - Prosecutions boss Shaun Abrahams is fighting to keep his job. He’s facing legal claims that he was unlawfully appointed. Former National Director of Public Prosecutions, Mxolisi Nxasana, has told the North Gauteng High Court he was forced from his position. He has agreed to give up his R17-million golden handshake and return to his post. Nxasana disputed President Jacob Zuma’s version that he had asked to leave his position. He said that President Zuma lied under oath about how he left his position as South Africa’s most powerful prosecutor. Zuma claims Nxasana asked to resign from the job and was then given a R17-million settlement, which Nxasana said is simply not true. He said he met Zuma before he was forced out of his position, and discovered the President was convinced that he intended to reinstate corruption charges against him, in collusion with former prosecutions head Bulelani Ngcuka. “He told me that people are telling him that I’m dangerous, that I really wanted to prosecute him, and he said to me that the mere mention of Mr Ngcuka, Bulelani, it just drives him crazy. "And he said these people came to him and told him that I met with Bulelani Ngcuka in one of the flats in Durban, and they were even prepared to go and show him where we meet….he got so afraid that I intended to reinstate charges against him and I was doing this in collusion with Ngcuka so to say,” said Nxasana. President Zuma denied Nxasana’s account of how he says he was forced out of his job, but Nxasana said he’s prepared to testify about what happened and wants the president to do the same. Zuma, meanwhile, is now fighting a court application by Freedom Under Law, and Corruption Watch to overturn his multi-million rand settlement deal with Nxasana. Part of the application seeks to declare his appointment of Shaun Abrahams invalid and to reinstate Nxasana. Abrahams is also happy for Nxasana to pay back his settlement money, but claims Nxasana's exit from the NPA was legal. Abrahams also insists it is not in the public interest for him to be removed. eNCA