JOHANNESBURG - The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) has lashed out the party’s Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa for announcing his slate. It accuses the presidential hopeful of what it calls “extremely dangerous behaviour”. The party says more than 60% of its over 800 branches have successfully convened to nominate leaders for the December conference. The deadline for all branch general meetings is November 15. READ: ANC prepares to dissolve KZN PEC The PEC stopped short of calling Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa’s public pronouncement of his “winning team” slate ill-discipline. According to Super Zuma, ANC KZN Secretary, “What is deeply offensive and unexpected from the highest office of our movement is to openly, unashamedly, and blatantly betray the NGC decision on the need to overcome slate politics in choosing leadership. This statement also reflects extremely liberal politics which places the pursuit of individual ambitions above the overall interests of the African National Congress.” READ: Ramaphosa defends slate pronouncements The party has poured cold water on reports that ANC MP, Naledi Pandor will lead a ten-member dispute resolution team in the province. There were concerns that she may be compromised after Ramaphosa announced her as his running mate. So far, thirty BGMs have been disputed in the province due to allegations of irregularities in the nomination process. According to Zuma, "I’m the provincial secretary. I’m dealing with issues organisationally. I won’t attempt to deal with issues that you are hearing, specifically not properly communicated to us as an organisation. You are lucky because you are saying you know Naledi Pandor will be dealing with appeals, I don’t know.” READ: KZN ANC branch meeting marred by chaos as taxi tries to force its way in The provincial executive committee was declared unlawful by a full bench of judges of the Pietermaritzburg High Court in September. The party says should it be denied leave to appeal by the Pietermaritzburg High Court at the end of this month, it will petition the Supreme Court of Appeal.  eNCA