JOHANNESBURG - Deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa denied he apologised to the Amathole Regional General Council about the Eastern Cape 8th Provincial Conference on Thursday. According to a statement, the deputy president noted reports that he delivered an apology to the Council on Sunday, 29 October, apologising for addressing the Conference and recognising the Provincial Executive Committee of the ANC in the Province. "Nothing could be further from the truth," the statement read.
	
	"The 8th Provincial Conference of the Eastern Cape was duly sanctioned by the National Executive Committee, having followed all applicable guidelines for the convening of Conference. The Deputy President was duly deployed by the organisation to deliver the closing address at the Conference," he said.
	
	Ramaphosa stated he received reports of violence and visited injured people in the hospital before being informed the patients had all been discharged.  READ: Eastern Cape branch endorses Lindiwe Sisulu for ANC leader “I subsequently made my way to the Conference, where I was briefed by the NEC deployees about the events that had unfolded at the Conference.
	
	“When I addressed the Conference, I strongly condemned the violence that had happened and expressed my concern for those who were injured.
	
	“I also called for unity between the comrades who had remained and those who had left. In the course of condemning the violent incidents I used an unfortunate expression when I referred to the violent incidents as a ‘festival of chairs’.
	
	“This was insensitive. I have since apologised for this statement,” Ramaphosa clarified.
	
	He added: “I do, however, maintain that the conduct of those involved was wrong and should continue to be roundly condemned." "We must also condemn the temptation and practice of undermining and seeking not to recognise a duly elected leadership as in the case of the PEC of the Eastern Cape. The PEC that is in office is a product of a Conference and remains as such unless the appeal against their election is upheld.
	
	“Ultimately, we must all unite as comrades to ensure that the dignity of our movement remains intact at all times and that as leaders of society, we create a better life for the people of the Eastern Cape.” The deputy president reasserted the leadership of Eastern Cape have been duly elected unless the appeal process deems otherwise. eNCA