DUBLIN - Springbok coach Allister Coetzee faces a number of selection dilemmas ahead of Saturday’s Test against Ireland in Dublin. The Boks will kick off their end-of-year tour this weekend, which will be followed by clashes against France, Italy and Wales. The biggest question mark perhaps hangs over the No 10 jersey, with Allister Coetzee having hinted at his first press conference in Ireland that Handre Pollard could reclaim a starting berth ahead of Elton Jantjies. READ: SA could leapfrog Ireland on World Rankings  Although Jantjies has started all nine Tests this year, he has recently spent some time with his Japanese club, while he will also not be available for the final Test against Wales as it falls outside the international window. Pollard also impressed when he came off the bench in the Boks’ final Rugby Championship clash against the All Blacks at Newlands, and could now make his first start since the World Cup clash against Argentina back in October 2015. “The question to ask is with Elton being away for a couple of weeks now and not training with us, do I go with Elton or do I go with Pollard who has trained with us?” Coetzee said. “That’s a decision I’ve got to make in terms of how well prepared Elton is going to be for the game, versus Pollard who has been with us for three weeks.” While Pollard remains the front-runner to start at flyhalf, another selection poser facing Coetzee comes in the back row. READ: Coetzee: Springboks set for defining tour In the Boks’ last Test against New Zealand, the Bok coach went an unconventional route when he opted to start Pieter-Steph du Toit at blindside flank, while Francois Louw slotted in at No 8. However, Uzair Cassiem has now recovered from injury and would be expected to reclaim the No 8 jersey, with Louw and Siya Kolisi taking up their places on the flank. If Du Toit isn’t selected as a loose-forward, it will be interesting to see who Coetzee opts to start at No 5, with Lood de Jager, Franco Mostert and Du Toit all competing for that spot. Besides these talking points, there are further questions over who should start at both loosehead and tighthead prop. In the absence of both Beast Mtawarira and Coenie Oosthuizen for the Boks’ final Rugby Championship match, Coenie Oosthuizen slotted in at loosehead, while Ruan Dreyer wore the No 3 jersey. However, it was Wilco Louw who also impressed off the bench. Both Mtawarira and Oosthuizen are now available, but Coetzee may well opt to hand Kitshoff another start, while Oosthuizen and Louw are likely to compete for the No 3 jersey. The Bok team will be named on Thursday afternoon. African News Agency