JOHANNESBURG – The Democratic Alliance (DA)’s Helen Zille is giving African National Congress (ANC) voters some food for thought. A new survey, which explored sentiment towards the Western Cape premier, found she made a mark on both sides of the political divide. The ANC calls the shots in every province except in the Western Cape, where the DA has been building strong support. ANC supporters in the Cape have a unique perspective: their president leads the country, but one of his biggest critics leads the province. Zille, however, is no stranger to controversy after the public earlier this year called for her head for posting a pro-colonialism tweet, suggesting South Africa benefitted. A new poll, commissioned by eNCA and conducted by research company MarkData, explored voter sentiment in the Western Cape. Researchers interviewed nearly 180 Western Cape voters in September and October 2017 who cast their ballot for the ANC in the last municipal and national elections. Almost 260 others backed opposition parties. Just 13 percent of ANC voters think Zille has done a good job as premier of the Western Cape, compared to nearly 50 percent of voters who supported other parties. There is some consolation for Zille though, with 40 percent of ANC voters saying she has done a reasonable job. But there's a catch - they also say it is time for change, with Zille serving as premier for the past eight years. Either way, many ANC voters think her performance is either good or reasonable. KwaZulu-Natal provides a useful comparison, with 75 percent of ANC voters saying Premier Willies Mchunu is doing a good or reasonable job. Importantly, Mchunu is an ANC leader while Zille on the other hand is a DA premier, but still scores over 50 percent among ANC voters. The results come just a month before the ANC elects its president in what is widely believed to be a close contest between Cyril Ramaphosa and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. Zille clearly doesn't appeal to everyone, but the numbers suggest she could offer some tips to the ANC's next leader. eNCA