JOHANNESBURG – At least 73 percent of children in South Africa feel their voices are not heard and their opinions ignored, according to a Unicef analysis released on Monday. The analysis was conducted for World Children’s Day,  the anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, on Monday. The researchers looked at 180 million children, living in 37 countries, who were more likely to live in extreme poverty, be out of school, or be killed than children living in those countries were 20 years ago. They found that nearly half of children (45 percent) across 14 countries did not trust their adults and world leaders to make good decisions for children. Brazil had the highest proportion of children (81 percent) who did not trust leaders, followed by South Africa at 69 percent. Children in India had the most confidence in their leaders, with only 30 percent not trusting them. READ: It's now illegal to spank your child in SA Unicef director of data, research and policy Laurence Chandy said: “While the last generation has seen vast, unprecedented gains in living standards for most of the world’s children, the fact that a forgotten minority of children have been excluded from this – through no fault of their own or those of their families – is a travesty”.
	
	Chandy said despite global progress, one in 12 children worldwide lived in countries where their prospects today were worse than those of their parents at a comparable age. “It is the hope of every parent, everywhere, to provide greater opportunities for their children than they themselves enjoyed when they were young. This World Children’s Day we have to take stock of how many children are instead seeing opportunities narrow and their prospects diminish,” said Chandy. Assessing children’s prospects in escaping extreme poverty, getting a basic education and avoiding violent deaths, the Unicef analysis revealed that the share of people living on less than $1.90 (R26.57) a day has increased in 14 countries, including Benin, Cameroon, Madagascar, Zambia and Zimbabwe. This increase is mostly due to unrest, conflicts or poor governance. READ: Women, children bear the brunt of poverty in SA Primary school enrolment declined in 21 countries, including Syria and Tanzania, due to such factors as financial crises, rapid population growth and the impact of conflicts. Violent deaths among children below the age of 19 increased in seven countries: Central African Republic, Iraq, Libya, South Sudan, Syria, Ukraine and Yemen – all countries experiencing major conflicts.
	
	Four countries – Central African Republic, South Sudan, Syria and Yemen – witnessed a decline across more than one of the three areas measured, while South Sudan experienced declines across all three. “In a time of rapid technological change leading to huge gains in living standards, it is perverse that hundreds of millions are seeing living standards actually decline, creating a sense of injustice among them and failure among those entrusted with their care,” said Chandy. “No wonder they feel their voices are unheard and their futures uncertain.” A separate Unicef survey of children aged 9 to18 in 14 countries, also released on Monday showed that children were deeply concerned about global issues affecting their peers and themselves, including violence, terrorism, conflict, climate change, unfair treatment of refugees and migrants, and poverty. The survey's key findings included that half of the children across all 14 countries reported feeling disenfranchised when asked how they felt when decisions were made that affected children around the world. Children in India reported feeling the most empowered, with 52 percent believing their voices were heard and could help their country. Children across all 14 countries identified terrorism, poor education and poverty as the biggest issues they wanted world leaders to take action on. The analysis found that across all 14 countries, violence against children was the biggest concern, with 67 percent reporting worrying a lot. Children in Brazil, Nigeria, and Mexico were the most worried about violence affecting children, with 82 percent, 77 percent and 74 percent respectively worrying a lot about this issue. Children in Japan were the least likely to worry, with less than a quarter of children surveyed (23 percent) worrying a lot.
	
	Children across all 14 countries were equally concerned about terrorism and poor education, with 65 percent of all children surveyed worrying a lot about these issues. In Turkey and Egypt, children were the most likely to worry about terrorism affecting them personally, at 81 percent and 75 percent respectively. Unicef said that by contrast, children in the Netherlands were the least likely to be concerned that terrorism would affect them directly, at just 30 percent. “Children in Brazil and Nigeria are the most concerned about poor quality education or lack of access, with more than eight in 10 children worrying about this affecting children across the world.”.
	
	About four in 10 children across all 14 countries worried a lot about the unfair treatment of refugee and migrant children across the world. Children in Mexico, Brazil and Turkey were the most likely to worry about unfair treatment of refugee and migrant children across the world, with nearly three in five Mexican children expressing fear, followed by more than half of children in Brazil and Turkey. The analysis estimated that around 55 percent of children in Mexico were worried this would personally affect them.
	Barack Obama, Cristiano Ronaldo, Justin Bieber and Taylor Swift were the most popular names for children to invite to their birthday party, with the former president of the United States featuring in the top five in nine of the 14 countries. Watching TV featured as the number one hobby of choice in seven out of 14 of the countries.
	
	World Children’s Day is a day "for children, by children", when children from around the world are taking over key roles in media, politics, business, sport and entertainment to express their concerns about what global leaders should be focusing on, and to voice support for the millions of their peers who are facing a less hopeful future.
	
	“World Children’s Day is about listening to us and giving us a say in our future. And our message is clear: We need to speak up for ourselves, and when we do, the world needs to listen,” said Jaden Michael, a 14-year-old activist and Unicef child advocate. African News Agency