DURBAN – Kaizer Chiefs’ failed to win for a fourth consecutive league game after they were held to a 1-1 draw by Free State Stars at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday evening.
	 
	Chiefs probably had the better of the chances in Durban, where they were playing their home fixture, but Ea Lla Koto were by no means over-run and they’ll likely feel they deserved the point.
	 
	Stars showed their intent from kick-off and it was Chiefs who found themselves on the back foot for the opening minutes of the game as the Free State side pushed and probed for openings.
	 
	But their only chance came on five minutes when Thabo Maphakisa played the ball across the goal, where Sinethemba Jantjie failed to get a touch from only a few yards out.
	 
	Amakhosi grew into the game and had their first opportunity in the 21st minute when Gustavo Paez cut the ball back from the byline for George Maluleka, but from 18-yards he hit a first time shot just wide of the far post.
	 
	The Glamour Boys took control of proceedings for the rest of the half, but for the most part, found themselves up against a resolute and solid Stars defence.
	 
	There was a chance for Siphiwe Tshabalala when he cut inside and fired goal-wards, but his shot was cleared off the line by Sifiso Mbhele.
	 
	Maluleka then again failed to hit the target when he curled the ball onto the roof of the net after Paez teed him up six minutes before halftime.
	 
	Both teams had openings seven minutes after the restart as Itumeleng Khune denied Jantjie, who had turned superbly, while at the other end Badra Sangare came off his line quickly to stop Tshabalala shooting on goal after the Bafana man had beaten two defenders in the box.
	 
	The deadlock was broken in the 64th minute when Nhlanhla Vilakazi was given time and space to shoot from outside the box, his shot taking a sizeable deflection off defender Daniel Cardoso and past Khune and into the net.
	 
	But the visitors’ lead only lasted three minutes as the Soweto side equalised through Bernard Parker, who showed good sharpness to take Willard Katsande’s pass in his stride before scoring from 14-yards out.
	 
	Nyiko Mobbie drew a save from Khune from a tight angle with 12 minutes to go, while Sangare did superbly to steal the ball away from Bhongolethu Jayiya in the 87th minute. Amakhosi pushed for a winner and came agonisingly close in the final seconds of the game when after a goalmouth scramble Joseph Molangoane struck the post.
	 
	Chiefs coach Steve Komphela would probably have been expecting to claim all three points against his former employers. But instead, he finds himself under a bit more pressure after four consecutive league draws during which time only one goal has been scored, while there was also the Telkom Knockout semi-final defeat to Bidvest Wits last weekend.  African News Agency