PRETORIA – In an effort to curb the alarming road fatalities, the community of Soshanguve and Mabopane gathered on Thursday, on the R80 Mabopane highway to pray for less accidents during the festive  season.  The event marked its fifth year since it was initiated by community members as part of an awareness on road safety. The crowd lit candles as a sign to remember their loved ones who died due to accidents and continued to pray on the highway. According to the organiser, John Molepo, since they have started the spiritual intervention prayer meetings, there has been a decline on the number of accidents recorded on the highway. “In 2016 November, Mabopane Highway had 304 accidents and this year (2017) November has 249. This is a clear indication that our efforts with different stakeholders in ensuring road safety is working,” Molepo said. Most accidents were recorded in March, with 34 followed by 30 in June. “It is pivotal that we intensify road safety campaigns especially as we approach festive season. The message we spread as community members of Tshwane is that the need for high visibility of traffic enforcement agencies should be intensified. We also caution the behaviour of a motorist to exercise patience on the road, respecting each other and obeying the rules of the road,” Molepo said. The prayer meeting was attended by members of different Non-Government Organisations and members of the Soshanguve Taxi Owners’ Association (Sotoa). Mckeed Mogale chairperson of Sotoa told community members that they shouldn’t blame taxi drivers for all the accidents which happen. “Accidents are caused by all the road users, we advise everyone who is a driver to be cautious because the moment you get in a car, it’s a lethal weapon, it can kill you anytime.” Mogale advised residents to report any bad driving they witness from taxi drivers. According to reports, the Road Accident Fund received 202,100 claims of accidents in 2016 and 2017. The Road Traffic Management Corporation reported that a total of 12,944 fatalities and road tragic crashes were reported. “Why should a child sleep at night without a parent because of an accident taking place at Mabopane Highway. Why should a husband or wife lose their spouse because of the accidents in the highway,” questioned Isaac Maluleke a member of the community. Maluleke advised motorists to stop driving in the fast lane. “Let’s stop it, South Africa, let’s stop driving recklessly, let’s take care of each other,” Maluleke said. African News Agency