LONDON - Zinedine Zidane insists Real Madrid will shake off their recent struggles and deliver a performance worthy of their first ever appearance at Wembley when they face Tottenham in the Champions League on Wednesday. Zidane's side have endured stinging criticism after their spluttering start to the season hit a new low with a shock 2-1 defeat at La Liga minnows Girona on Sunday. Real trail eight points behind leaders Barcelona after losing two and drawing two of their opening 10 games and Zidane has faced pointed questions about his tactics and motivational abilities for the first time. Against that troubled backdrop, a trip to London to face Tottenham at their temporary Wembley home could provide a tricky test of Madrid's morale.  But Zidane sees it differently and the Madrid manager believes his club's first appearance at one of the world's most famous arenas can have an uplifting effect on his team. "Wembley is an important place in the football world. It's a great stage to play on against great opposition," Zidane told reporters at Wembley on Tuesday. "It's not been without its complications in the build-up, but we are very much prepared to do our job. "For me I played in the old stadium and it was a fantastic experience. "Unfortunately I won't be able to play tomorrow, but it's a beautiful stadium and it will be a great spectacle." READ: Real Madrid lose in troubled Catalonia The opportunity to break new ground at Wembley is a welcome distraction for Zidane and his squad given their erratic form. Crowned European champions for a 12th time last season, Madrid have been unusually error-prone this term. A 1-1 draw at home to Tottenham earlier this month was the latest unconvincing display from Zidane's team. But Zidane denied spirits are low in the Real camp and he is confident they will use the criticism as motivation to silence the doubters. Pochettino confident Kane will face Real Meanwhile, Mauricio Pochettino is confident Harry Kane will be fit for Real’s Champions League visit.    Kane missed Saturday's 1-0 defeat at Manchester United with a hamstring injury but showed no visible sign of discomfort during a light session at Tottenham's training base in north London. The 24-year-old was able to complete some short sprints and basic passing drills while at one point he made a hand gesture appearing to suggest he felt fine. His return at Wembley on Wednesday would be a huge boost for Tottenham, given Kane has scored five goals in three European games so far. Pochettino is hopeful Kane, who has 13 club goals this season, will be ready to start against the European champions. But, perhaps in a bid to keep Madrid guessing, he stopped short of declaring his forward was certain to feature. READ: Perez: 'Magnificent' Kane would cost 250-million euro "We're very confident," Pochettino said. "He's on the list. Maybe it's possible for him to play but I don't want to say 100 per cent. "He trained today but it is important we make the right decision." Tottenham are level on seven points with Real Madrid in Group H after the sides shared a 1-1 draw at the Santiago Bernabeu earlier this month. After losing their last two games against Manchester United in the Premier League and West Ham United in the League Cup, Pochettino's side go into Wednesday's match aiming to reestablish some momentum. Pochettino called on his Tottenham stars to take the fight to Madrid as they bid for a famous victory. "It's a good opportunity and a great challenge. I have the belief we can win. I have faith in my players," he said. "We must play with freedom and enjoy the game. We have to show our quality."  Even if Kane doesn't play, Tottenham defender Jan Vertonghen believes they can match Madrid. "Harry is a very important player on and off the pitch for this group and having him is always a major boost but definitely we can beat them," Vertonghen said. "With or without Harry Kane, we go for the win." If Pochettino opts to keep Kane on the sidelines, at least he can welcome Dele Alli back from suspension. England midfielder Alli was banned for Tottenham's first three group games and has struggled to hit peak form this season. But Pochettino is certain Alli's involvement in Tottenham's European campaign will boost his morale. "When a player is not involved, you feel a little bit down," he said. "Sometimes he had to stay at the training ground, alone, training. It was not easy for anyone. Maybe he was affected a little bit about that. AFP