JOHANNESBURG - Vodacom says it's cooperating with the Competition Commission on its probe into a contract with the National Treasury. The telecoms operator on Monday released its interim results for the six months to the end of September. The results show revenue from data services in South Africa surpassed voice-service revenue for the first time. Vodacom is investing more in data services in South Africa and in its international operations as internet-enabled smartphones gain ground and voice services decline. The company says it expects data services' share of its international markets to surpass voice in the next five years. But Vodacom says its ability to drop costs as data use booms is hampered by the availability of additional network capacity. According to Shameel Joosub, Vodacom CEO, "The big issue for us though is that there’s only so much we can do without more access to spectrum. What’s happening is that we are bringing prices down, and we are doing that quite aggressively, but to be able to bring it down even faster you need to drop the cost to carry a meg of data. To be able to do that, you need spectrum. We continue to invest quite aggressively. This year we’ll invest R9bn, but its where you put that capital that’s important,’ The company’s share price dropped last month after the Competition Commission launched an investigation into a contract with the National Treasury. But Vodacom says the awarding of the deal was a well-governed process. The company has passed the 40 million customer mark in South Africa for the first time, growing by 12.1% year-on-year. "Cellular and telecoms are becoming more ingrained into people’s lives. People are now more entertained on the phone. People are spending more time on their phones. 20% of people spend more than 5 hours a day on their phones. It’s becoming more and more part of your life. It’s now eating into other areas like entertainment. There is growth, but it’s important that the economy continues to grow, unemployment comes down, and that we have stable exchange rates and interest rates," says Joosub.  The company says it achieved two milestones during the first half of the year: it acquired a nearly 35% stake in Kenyan mobile network operator Safaricom, and completed the listing of a 25% stake in Vodacom Tanzania.  eNCA