JOHANNESBURG – Bafana Bafana’s hopes of qualifying for their fourth FIFA World Cup turned to misery on Friday when they lost 2-0 to Senegal in Polokwane. That result effectively sent the visitors to Russia while South Africa missed out on a second consecutive appearance at the global showpiece. The team, which also missed out on this year’s Africa Cup of Nations, was once labelled a ‘bunch of losers’ by former sports minister Fikile Mbalula.  Here are five moments when Bafana Bafana has disappointed the nation since the turn of the millennium. 2006 Africa Cup of Nations  The 2006 edition of the Africa Cup of Nations turned out to be the lowest point for the declining side. They lost all three matches at the tournament in Egypt without even scoring a single goal.  (Siyabonga Nomvethe of South Africa (front) fights for the ball with Tunisia's Radhi Jaidi during their Group C African Nations Cup (CAN) football match in Alexandria, Egypt 26 January 2006. Rabih Moghrabi / AFP) 2010 FIFA World Cup After a promising start against Mexico at the 2010 FIFA World Cup on home soil, Bafana Bafana were expected to improve and gain momentum. However fans were left distraught as the host team succumbed 3-0 against Uruguay, which dealt a huge blow to their hopes of qualifying for the knockout stages of the tournament.  (Uruguay's striker Diego Forlan (C) scores the opening goal during the Group A first round 2010 World Cup football match South Africa vs Uruguay on June 16, 2010 at Loftus Versfeld stadium in Tshwane/Pretoria.Rodrigo Arangua  AFP) 2012 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers Bafana Bafana missed out on qualification for the 2012 Africa Cup of Nations after playing to a 0-0 draw with Sierra Leone in Nelspruit in October 2011. South Africa’s players celebrated at the final whistle, mistakenly believing they had qualified for the 2012 tournament.  (Daylon Claasen of South Africa (Top) flies over Ibrahim Kargbo of Sierra Leone during the African Cup of Nations 2012 qualifier football match between South Africa and Sierra Leone at Mbombela Stadium on October 8, 2011 in Nelspruit. Samuel Shivambu / AFP) 5-0 defeat to Brazil Neymar netted a hat-trick as Brazil crushed South Africa 5-0 at the FNB Stadium in March 2014. A better showing had been expected from Bafana Bafana after they had stunned then World Cup and euro title-holders Spain 1-0 at the same stadium four months before.  (South Africa's midfielder Daylon Claasen (L) vies for the ball with Brazil's forward Neymar during a friendly football match between South Africa and Brazil at Soccer City stadium in Soweto, outside Johannesburg, on March 5, 2014. Marco Longari / AFP) 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifiers Four points from six after two matches, Bafana Bafana had Russia in their sight. However the wheels came off when FIFA ordered a replay of the Senegal match which South Africa had won, thus reducing their points tally to just one, but the most embarrassing moments were the home and away defeats to Cape Verde, a side that was expected to be the whipping boys of the group.  (Cape Verde coach Lucio Antunes during the World Cup Qualifier match between South Africa and Cape Verde on the 05 September 2017 at Moses Mabhida Stadium. Sydney Mahlangu /BackpagePix) eNCA