JOHANNESBURG – Zimbabwe's ruling party has expelled members of what it called the 'G40 cabal' amid its announcement to recall President Robert Mugabe and replaced him with sacked Vice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Mugabe was also forced to immediately resign as President of Zimbabwe and has been given until Monday to resign as head of state. READ: Four key players in Zimbabwe's political crisis Here's a list of members the party fired. Grace Mugabe The first lady who was reportedly in Namibia had been expelled from Zanu-PF. Speculation was rife that she was set to replace her husband as Zimbabwe's next president before the military intervened in the political situation. The ruling party also removed Grace from her position as Secretary of Women's League “for promoting hate speech, divisiveness and assuming roles in powers not delegated to her office.” Kudzanayi Chipanga Zanu-PF youth leader, who once said he would die for the embattled Mugabe, got the boot. Chipanga lashed at Zimbabwe's army but later made a public apology to commander Constantino Chiwenga and the entire army. Jonathan Moyo Zimbabwe's Higher and Tertiary Education, Science and Technology Minister Professor Jonathan Moyo was removed from the party. There were reports that Moyo was one of the cabinet ministers arrested when the military seized power. Saviour Kasukuwere Zanu PF's national political commissar Saviour Kasukuwere, believed to be Grace Mugabe's ally got booted from the party. Kasukuwere was also one the people arrested when the military intervened. Patrick Zhuwao Mugabe's nephew defended his uncle and criticised the military for its intervention in the country's politics. Zhuwao is currently in hiding. Ignatius Chombo Zimbabwe's finance minister and a leading member of the so-called 'G40' faction was detained by the military. Other members that were expelled are Phelekezela Mphoko (Zimbabwe vice-president), Foreign Affairs minister Walter Mzembi, Minister of State for Masvingo province Paul Chimedza, Manicaland provincial Affairs Minister Mandiitawepi Chimene, Zimbabwe's sports minister Makhosini Hlongwane and Zanu-PF's Harare provincial political commissar Shadreck Mashayamombe. eNCA