JOHANNESBURG – A learned SA economist, now retired, said he feared for the day when national treasury would be reduced to scrambling around to find the money to pay for bad policies made elsewhere in government. That day has arrived, marked by the resignation of Michael Sachs, the head of treasury’s budget office. Sachs is the third senior official to have left the department since Pravin Gordhan was sacked in March. With morale in the department at rock bottom, there are fears that Sachs’ departure could ignite a wider exodus. “I’ve spoken to a couple of chief directors and deputy directors-general to implore them to stick together and to save the institution at least until December,” says former director-general (DG) Lungisa Fuzile. “But it just looks as if the push factors have become stronger and stronger.” Sachs’ resignation is “the final nail in SA’s investment credit rating coffin”, says Rand Merchant Bank chief economist Ettienne le Roux. “The pillars of what once were two rock-solid institutions — the SA Revenue Service and now treasury are starting to buckle. Key institutional strengths from a credit rating perspective are quickly turning into weaknesses.” Sachs’ resignation comes just weeks before two credit ratings agencies publish their review of SA’s economy on November 24. Both S&P Global Ratings and Moody’s are expected to junk SA’s local currency ratings on the country’s rapid fiscal deterioration and failing growth prospects — a move which is likely to cause huge capital flight and significant rand weakness. By removing himself, Sachs (who declined to be interviewed) is effectively removing the last vestige of credibility from SA’s fiscal framework. For such was Sachs’ stature in the financial community that if he said treasury had a plan to stabilise the debt ratio, it carried enormous weight. READ: Economists decry departure of Treasury's Sachs In 2015, he told the International Monetary Fund that he would eat his hat if government debt didn’t stabilise under 50 percent of GDP in three years in line with treasury’s projections. Until recently, the markets believed these targets would be met. Judge Dennis Davis, who heads the Davis Tax Committee, describes Sachs as “one of the finest people in government — thoughtful, progressive, incredibly hard working and unbelievably committed to creating the society envisaged by our constitution”. Davis considers his departure “an unspeakable loss” to treasury. Sachs’ resignation is a protest against President Jacob Zuma’s attempt to ram down treasury’s throat a half-baked plan devised by the 28-year Morris Masutha, who is romantically linked to the president’s daughter. It will require government to spend R40-billion more next year, and every year, providing free tertiary education to thousands more students. Not only does the plan bypass the painstaking budget process, ignoring last month’s medium-term budget, it also circumvents government’s policy-making process and gives zero consideration to the freshly minted Heher commission report. More importantly, there is no money for such a plan. There is a R50-billion revenue hole in the budget. To announce free higher education destroys any pretence that government is committed to fiscal sustainability. Besides Masutha’s mystery plan, two other recent developments are alarming. The first is the creation of a small Presidential Fiscal Committee, headed by Zuma, to decide budget priorities and where to make expenditure cuts. The second is the new role created for the department of planning, monitoring & evaluation (DPME), headed by Jeff Radebe and located in the presidency, which has produced a Mandate Paper to guide spending priorities for the next two years. The Democratic Alliance’s David Maynier is demanding an urgent hearing on Sachs’ resignation in parliament, before the recess. Sachs’ resignation is also of “enormous concern” to Business Leadership SA (BLSA). READ: Treasury's budget head, Michael Sachs resigns Noting that parliament carries the ultimate responsibility for approving the budget, not the presidency, BLSA warns that Sachs’ resignation raises concern over the politicisation of treasury and the budget process and undermines the credibility of SA’s institutions. Says Fuzile: “It takes time to build a person of the calibre of Michael — well rounded, technically solid and politically savvy. “He is a brilliant guy with a master’s from Harvard but I still insisted he do a stint as a chief director to expose him to all facets of fiscal policy. Later, when he applied to head the budget office, he stood head and shoulders above the other applicants.” Though the budget office is the central cog in the fiscal framework, it is too simplistic to dismiss the DPME’s new mandate as illegitimate interference. All budgeting trade-offs are ultimately political choices that have to be made by government as a collective. The spotlight is now set to fall on the DPME’s director-general, Mpumi Mpofu, the wife of highprofile advocate Dali Mpofu. As a former DG of transport and housing as well as a former administrative head of the Defence Force, Mpofu is a highly experienced and capable administrator with an excellent reputation in government. If she and treasury DG Dondo Mogajane are allowed to do their jobs properly, the new arrangement could work. But it will require Zuma to back down over his rogue fee plan. If not, Sachs’ departure could start a stampede for the exit. iNet Bridge