JOHANNESBURG – Bidvest Wits held off a spirited Baroka FC to book their spot in the Telkom Knockout (TKO) semi-finals after a 1-0 win at the Bidvest Stadium on Saturday night. After scoring an early goal through the increasingly impressive Egyptian striker Amr Gamal and then wasting a host of further scoring chances in the first 45 minutes, the second half saw the Clever Boys with their backs against the walls as Baroka staged an ultimately unsuccessful fight-back.
	 
	The match got off to a flying start with action at both ends, before the Students took a 10th-minute lead when Gamal pounced in the box to steer Vincent Pule’s low cross into a goal for his third goal in the competition.
	 
	Their tails up after scoring, Wits put the visiting team under severe pressure as they created a succession of chances.
	 
	But the score-line remained unchanged as Daine Klate and Elias Pelembe were kept out by Baroka keeper Virgil Vries, while Gamal curled a shot wide with the goal at his mercy on 18 minutes.
	 
	The defending league champions, who have had such a poor overall start to the campaign, remained on the front-foot and had another great chance in the 35th minute, but Pule took a touch too many and Vries was able to make a brave block.
	 
	Gift Motupa looked set to get Bakgaga back in the game five minutes before halftime, but Wits keeper Darren Keet made a brilliant reflex save with his feet.
	 
	Klate then wasted another opportunity for the home team to extend their lead before half-time when he headed straight at Vries.
	 
	The Clever Boys continued to control the match just after the break but didn’t really create any clear openings.
	 
	Instead, it was home stopper Keet who was kept busy as the game moved past the 60-minute mark, pulling off two key saves in quick succession from Albert Mothupa and Robin Ngalande respectively.
	 
	Talent Chawapiwa was also denied by Keet in the 73rd minute as Wits found themselves spending more and more time camped in their own half.
	 
	However, the hosts did well to take the sting out of Bakgaga’s tail in the closing minutes of the game and were able to hold on for victory without much issue to book their spot in the last four draw.  African News Agency