CAPE TOWN - Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Communications said it was satisfied with the progress made by the new SABC board in implementing the recommendations made by both the Public Protector and the ad hoc committee investigating the state of affairs at the public broadcaster. In her report, "When Governance and Ethics Fail", the former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela made adverse findings against the former SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng.
	
	The current SABC board rescinded the decision of the previous board to take the Public Protector's report on a judicial review. The Committee praised the board for implementing the recommendations, including resuscitating a disciplinary hearing against Motsoeneng. He was dismissed earlier in the year after being found guilty of misconduct during a different hearing. "On the ad hoc committee recommendations, the Committee has noted the successes including, among others, a reversal of the duties of the Editor-in-Chief from the COO to the Group Chief Executive Officer (GCEO), review of 90-10 local content directive, as well as termination of contracts awarded irregularly to Lornavision and The New Age (TNA) media," the Communications Committee said in a statement. READ: Motsoeneng refused leave to appeal SABC8 costs ruling: Solidarity It welcomed attempts to recover "ill-gotten monies" from Motsoeneng and former CEO James Aguma. “We also appreciate the fact that there is a possibility of instituting criminal charges against those employees who allegedly participated in criminal activities under the regime of the previous Board,” said Committee chairperson Humphrey Maxegwana. However, the Committee reprimanded the SABC board for not doing enough to investigate intimidation of staff, especially around former journalist and one of the so-called SABC 8, the late Suna Venter. Venter died of broken-heart syndrome in June 2017. The condition is caused by severe stress and trauma. 
	
	"The Committee encouraged the board to make concerted efforts to uncover perpetrators in order to avoid future recurrences." Maxegwana said the Committee had been briefed about the sudden resignation of SABC board member Rachel Kalidass on November 16 and that the committee undertakes to meet with her either in the last week of November or the first term on 2018 "to listen to her side of story." eNCA