POLOKWANE - The scenario is simple: beat Senegal twice over the next four days and Bafana will be on their way to Russia 2018. In reality, though, the task at hand is far from easy. The Lions of Teranga currently find themselves top of Group D, unbeaten so far and needing a solitary point to qualify, barring some sort of miracle over in Burkina Faso. They’ve conceded just two goals in their four group matches and have a wealth of internationally proven stars to call on. South Africa on the other hand will be without Thulani Serero after the Dutch-based player snubbed his call-up this week, while talismanic goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune will go into the match under a fitness cloud. However, all is not lost for Stuart Baxter’s side. They managed a 2-1 win over the visitors in Polokwane earlier in the qualifiers, only for the result to be rescinded by Fifa following match-fixing charges against Ghanaian referee Joseph Lamptey.
	They also managed a morale-boosting 3-1 win over Burkina Faso last time around. Local bookmakers, BET.co.za, have Senegal as slight favourites for the match, while the West African’s remain odds-on to book their place in Russia either on Friday or next Tuesday in Dakar. They have decided to take a closer look at the statistics and pulled out a few interesting bets for the match. Both Teams to score and Draw – 9/2
	While Senegal may have one on the better defences in the qualifiers, South Africa caused them problems on the counter the last time they met. Stuart Baxter’s side aren’t without defensive issues of their own, having failed to keep a clean sheet so far. It may not be what South Africa wants, but a draw seems the likeliest outcome. Sadio Mane to score anytime – 7/2
	While Mane has only notched up the solitary effort in qualifying, he has been in fine form for Liverpool in the Premier League this season. His pace and trickery caused all manner of problems for West Ham on his return from injury over the weekend. He’ll be looking to do the same to the shaky South African defence.  Penalty to be awarded in the match – 9/2
	So far during the group stages, there have been three penalties awarded in matches involving South Africa, excluding the two from the now invalid match in Polokwane. South Africa have also committed over 60 fouls so far and received three red cards. At longer odds, it might be a shrewd move to back a penalty to be awarded – hopefully under far less controversial circumstances. Bet on all the biggest international soccer matches with BET.co.za