JOHANNESBURG - Cyril Ramaphosa is the clear leader in e-tv's latest poll. Research company, MarkData, interviewed more than 300 ANC voters in Limpopo during September and October. It suggests Ramaphosa is well-placed to land the party's top job.   The ANC should have a new leader in a month and make no mistake, the race is on.
	
	This week - Limpopo is in the spotlight. The province will send nearly 650 members to the elective conference. Just three provinces have bigger delegations.
	
	Cyril Ramaphosa grew up in the region and it seems he's a favourite son. Seventy-seven percent of voters want Ramaphosa as ANC president. Just three percent support Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. Zweli Mkhize takes fourth spot, but he does make a mark - nearly eight percent say he's their second choice.
	
	Researchers have also probed sentiment towards President Jacob Zuma. LISTEN: Ramaphosa throws hat in the ring for presidency More than two thirds think he has a corrupt relationship with the controversial Gupta family. Less than 10 percent don't believe the relationship is corrupt, but some interesting details emerge here - nearly a quarter of voters refuse to offer an opinion.
	
	The president could face tough action, if these voters get their way. Sixty-six percent say he should be jailed, provided there's proof of corruption. Just over 10 percent think he should be pardoned.
	
	The president's fate is one thing, but the ANC's next leader will face a massive challenge, summed up in just three words - radical economic transformation. 
	
	Eight percent of voters think the party should be more radical but most want more support for business. Fifty-five percent say the private sector is the key to transformation. That figure is in stark contrast to the last two polls - around 35 percent of voters in Mpumalanga and the Western Cape want more pro-business policies.
	
	More results to come over the next few days. The Race also airs on eNCA, with our panel unpacking the numbers on Monday at 3:30 PM. 
	  eNCA