JOHANNESBURG – South Africans were pulling out umbrellas, jerseys and blankets on Wednesday, as cold and wet weather swept across various parts of the country.  In KwaZulu-Natal, a warning was issued for flooding due to heavy rains. There is also a possibility of gale force winds.  Another stormy day for SA due to an intense cut-off low moving over the country. Heavy rain leading to localized flooding possible in KZN & gale force SW'ly winds along the coast. Watch: Severe t-storms possible in the east. More on #eNCA today pic.twitter.com/TatUkq6nZu MEC for Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Nomusa Dube-Ncube urged residents in the province to be extra cautious. “Disaster Management teams in the province are ready to deal with any incidences that may occur as a result of bad weather. We have activated all disaster centres across all districts for teams to be on standby to assist and work together with law enforcement agencies to ensure that human lives are protected. The heavy rains that our province experiences cause a lot of damage to vital public infrastructure like roads and bridges,” said Dube-Ncube. KZN was lashed by severe storms in October and earlier in November. The drought-stricken Western Cape received some much-needed rain.  Take a look at your 24 hour rainfall amounts since yesterday until 8:00 this morning. Heavy rain observed along the south coast with much needed rainfall over parts of the Western Cape. #eNCA pic.twitter.com/UIJY8Bt17M At the same time, snow was observed over the Matroosberg mountains near Ceres.  Light snow falling over the Matroosberg near Ceres & over the mountainous areas near Beaufort West. According to our snowfall accumulation forecast the snow will spread eastwards over the EC mountains, Lesotho & Drakensberg. #eNCA pic.twitter.com/DI9mvRNvFD Residents in Gauteng, the Free State and Mpumalanga can expect a sharp drop in temperatures from Thursday.  Johannesburg is expected to drop to a minimum of 5°C reaching a high of 19°C while Pretoria will drop to 7°C, reaching a maximum of 22°C. The weather is expected to clear up over the weekend. - Additional reporting by African News Agency eNCA