JOHANNESBURG - A 26-year-old doctor was crowned the new Miss South Africa on Thursday as Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters had to vacate the position when she was crowned Miss Universe at the weekend.  Nel-Peters' first princess, Adè van Heerden, now takes up the reigns. Boipelo Mabe, who was crowned the second princess at Sun City earlier this year, will now take over the position as first princess. Earlier in November, Van Heerden made it to the Top 10 at the Miss World pageant, where she competed as Miss World South Africa. It was the first time a South African runner-up made it to the final 10.  The first official photos of your new #MissSA2017 pic.twitter.com/NjOwtk42Ow Van Heerden is a medical doctor and lieutenant at 2 Military Hospital in Cape Town. “Having only three weeks to prepare for Miss World and placing in the Top 10 as well as winning the Beauty with a Purpose project were achievements beyond my wildest dreams," she said at her crowning on Thursday. "But what I will carry with me forever is the immense pride I felt in being able to represent South Africa. I am delighted that I will be able to continue doing so as Miss South Africa.” Feeling all the feels. Watch your new #MissSA2017 @ade_VH crowns her 1st princess, @BoipeloMabe pic.twitter.com/cx3hntQddS Van Heerden expressed how proud she was that Nel-Peters won the Miss Universe competition.  “Demi has worked to make her dream a reality and I am elated to celebrate this victory with her.
	
	“I know that I have big shoes to fill but am thrilled and humbled to wear the Miss South Africa crown. Previous Miss South Africas have already welcomed me into the sisterhood with open arms, and I realise that I now have the responsibility of continuing the Miss South Africa legacy.  A legacy that leads women of all cultures, spreads love and unite South Africans.” Van Heerden would like to focus on mental health issues during her reign, particularly in how they affect young women. 
	
	“I would like to concentrate on a range of mental health issues – from depression and eating disorders to anxiety and how to build confidence. One of the side effects of social media platforms is that girls have become incredibly critical of themselves and they often feel unworthy. I would like to use social media as a platform to address this.” Isn't she radiant? Welcome to the #MissSA sisterhood. #MissSA2017 pic.twitter.com/tm9SVYdfx2 She said the role of Miss SA continues to evolve with women stepping into important leadership roles in the country. 
	
	"I believe that I am representative of the ‘new and upcoming’ generation of women in our country.  We are smart, assertive and informed, but also empathetic and caring. This reflects in my calling as a doctor in the military – I’m not afraid to stand my ground on a physical or emotional level. I hope to lead as dynamically and as open-mindedly as I live my life.” Newly-crowned Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters sent the new Miss South Africa her congratulations: “You have demonstrated on the Miss World stage what you are capable of and I know you are going to make all South Africans proud. Welcome to the Miss South Africa club! I wish you everything of the best.”
	
	Miss South Africa 2018 will be crowned in May next year. eNCA