JOHANNESBURG - In little under a month the ANC holds its watershed national conference at which a new president and his or her top leadership team will be elected. Policies to guide the party for the next five years will be decided on. The five-day meeting can seem process so here are answers to your most pressing questions. Why is this conference important? It is widely accepted that the delegates’ choice of new leader will determine the fate of the divided party. That choice of leader may very well decide whether the ANC keeps or loses its position as the majority and governing party nationally, and in eight of the nine provinces. How does the ANC choose its top leadership? It starts with branch members nominating their preferred candidates for party president and the other members of the “top six”  (deputy president, secretary-general, deputy secretary-general, chairperson and treasurer-general). The top six are responsible for the day-to-day running of the ANC.  At the conference, the nominees must accept nomination, after which delegates vote on the names put forward. What is wrong with the current nomination process? Because there have previously been allegations of manipulation of nominations in the run-up to elections, the ANC has sought to modify the process this time around. Instead of nominations being collated at regional and provincial levels, branch preferences are now forwarded directly to ANC head office, in order to prevent possible doctoring of branch choices. By doing this, the ANC also hopes to discourage slate voting, whereby delegates vote for a list of names, rather than individuals. This system has been criticised by some in the ANC, who blame it for promoting factions and excluding some of its brains from leadership because they are included on one or other of the slates – or for being on neither. Who else gets elected at the conference? The conference will also elect a new national executive committee, the second-highest structure after the conference, and commonly known as the NEC). This comprises the “top six” and some 80 additional members. Leaders of the provinces and of the ANC’s leagues are co-opted as ex-officio members of the NEC. Broadly, the contest at this conference will be between those, like Cyril Ramaphosa, who believe that under President Jacob Zuma the ANC has departed from its founding values. They will be opposed by those who support Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma (Zuma’s preferred candidate as his successor). The latter’s platform is the introduction of so-called radical economic transformation. How often does the national conference take place? Every five years. eNCA