JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress (ANC) has set up a panel to investigate violence at its Eastern Cape's provincial conference in August. Four NEC members will make up the panel, namely Sbu Ndebele (chairperson), Rejoice Mabudafhasi, Joyce Moloi-Moropa and Sdumo Dlamini. WATCH: Chairs fly, police shoot rubber bullets at ANC EC conference ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe said: “The report noted that there was violence, that is an issue. The NEC strongly condemns violence and the destruction of property, this conduct flies against ANC tradition, views and culture. The NEC expresses regret to comrades injured in the process. "Serious allegations have also been made about premeditated attempts to collapse the conference. The ANC remains unequivocal about the incidents that took place that will be investigated. This includes identifying those responsible for inciting violence. The NEC condemns the use of violence as a means to win any nomination election at all costs." The ANC in the Eastern Cape says it's ready to testify before the newly formed panel. “We welcome the decision of the NEC. We think that this is the necessary process...because the ANC must be able to follow its own way of dealing with its own internal matters,” ANC Eastern Cape chairperson Oscar Mabuyane said. “This process is actually going to lay everything bare and all those who have been protagonists in the process will then be given an opportunity to explain whatever they have seen. The issue is about disruption and violence - these things go together… As a province, we are ready,” he added. In a statement, the ANC said almost 70 percent of its branches across the country have convened their branch general meetings (BGMs). As of Monday, provinces had held BGMs as follows: 1. Eastern Cape 56%
	2. Free State 87,6%
	3. Gauteng 76%
	4. KwaZulu-Natal 40,8%
	5. Mpumalanga 95.7%
	6. Limpopo 73.8%
	7. North West 54.3%
	8. Western Cape 66,3 %
	9. Northern Cape 94% READ: KZN ANC branch meeting marred by chaos as taxi tries to force its way in The deadline for BGMs to be convened is this Wednesday.  On Tuesday, Mantashe rubbished reports that he is about to be fired, saying he's been in his position for nine years and 11 months and intends to reach the 10-year mark. eNCA