JOHANNESBURG – The State Security Agency (SSA) has confirmed to eNCA.com that it has laid charges against investigative journalist, Jacques Pauw. SSA spokesperson, Brian Dube said: “We have laid charges against the author [of The President's Keepers] and former members of the SSA. We have laid charges relating to the contravention of certain sections of the Intelligence Services Act.” Dube said the charges were laid on Wednesday at the Lyttelton police station in Pretoria. READ: 5 key points from Jacques Pauw’s ‘The President’s Keepers’ Pauw is the author of a new book, The President's Keepers. The SSA had previously threatened to go to court to get large parts banned. Speaking to eNCA's Joanne Joseph, Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi has said an investigation has been launched based on information contained in Jacques Pauw’s book, based on the State Security Agency's charges brought, but that the Hawks still have to determine if they will be bringing charges against anyone. Responding to allegations that Pauw is to be arrested at the Pretoria launch of his book on Thursday night, Mulaudzi said the Hawks had no intentions. Meanwhile, Pauw's publisher said its concerned with charges against its client. “NB Publishers note with grave concern reports in the media that the State Security Agency (SSA) has laid charges against The President’s Keepers author, Jacques Pauw. Police have not been able to confirm the nature of the charges to our attorney, Willem de Klerk, because their systems are down. They say there are two separate complainants,” the publisher said in a statement. “Instead of investigating what Pauw’s explosive new book reveals about the agency – including that millions of Rands of taxpayers’ money was blown on a bogus parallel intelligence network – the SSA has chosen to “shoot the messenger”. Nevertheless, Pauw will cooperate with the authorities,” it added. In the book, Pauw alleges that SSA wasted over R1-billion of taxpayers’ money during a three-year period on an intelligence programme called the Principal Agent Network (PAN). Auditors found it was rife with corruption and wasteful expenditure. For example, Arthur Fraser was appointed the director-general of the SSA despite evidence he misappropriated hundreds of millions of rand, as well as further evidence that he was guilty of treason. The book states that investigations and cases against Fraser were repeatedly killed and that he was protected due to his closeness to President Jacob Zuma. The book also details Zuma’s financial recklessness before he became president. Pauw said he has received death threats over the book. Letter to de Klerk by eNCA.com on Scribd eNCA