NIGERIA - Stuart Baxter got his second coaching spell in charge of Bafana Bafana off to a winning start when South Africa defeated Nigeria 2-0 in a Group E 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium on Saturday. For the first time ever, #Bafana have beaten Nigeria in a competitive football game... Huge victory. pic.twitter.com/jKUtrCUROwThe half-time score was 0-0.The opening period was a cagey affair, a clear sign of the respect the two sides had for each other. When the game settled into a rhythm, though, it was Nigeria on the attack trying to break down the superb defensive organisation of the South Africans.Nigeria s build-ups were measured as they attempted to find a way through Bafana s tight, compact defensive lines. On many occasions, though, timely interceptions from Dean Furman and Thulani Hlatshwayo stopped the Super Eagles in their tracks. Stuart Baxter wins his second game against Nigeria he was Bafana coach in 2004 when they defeated the Super Eagles in a friendly gameThe first opportunity came in the 22nd minute when Manchester City s Kelechi Iheanacho played in Oghenekaro Etebo, but the midfielder s effort sailed agonisingly wide. Later, another chance opened up for Nigeria, but this time Bafana goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune was at hand to tip over Moses Simon s dangerous-looking cross.While the Nigerians continued to hog possession, they were frustrated by a South African side sticking to its sound, cohesive game plan. But, when the home side lost the ball, Bafana were quick to counter and, on one such occasion, they should have scored.Left-back Tebogo Langerman was sent haring down the flank and his cross into the penalty area was spilt by Nigeria goalkeeper Daniel Akpeyi. When the ball fell loose, South African winger Themba Zwane was first to react, but, amazingly, confronted with an empty net, he stabbed the ball against the upright.Read: Baxter names starting 11 to face NigeriaThe close shave was a warning to Nigeria that Bafana had it in them to nick a goal, and they duly did 10 minutes into the second half. Zwane played in Ramalhwe Mphahlele on the right, and his cross was headed in at the near post by Tokelo Rantie.With South Africa growing in confidence after the goal, and Nigeria still struggling to make any inroads, Baxter brought on Cape Town City s Lebogang Manyama in place of Sibusiso Vilakazi in the 65th minute. Stuart Baxter and this Bafana team of history makers are the 1st to ever beat Nigeria in an official game. Springboks Bafana Proteas ?Bafana should then have increased their advantage a few minutes later when, after a fantastic build-up move, the ball rolled for Zwane, but, for the second time, the Mamelodi Sundowns man hit the upright.The Nigerians were wilting in the face of Bafana s swift attacking forays and Keagan Dolly was desperately unlucky not to be given a penalty when he was fouled in the penalty area.With 15 minutes to go, the Super Eagles had no choice but to go for broke and push players forward. Wilfred Ndidi had a great chance to equalise, but slammed a thundering effort high. #SAvsNigAFCON 0-2: https://t.co/V24FHDFRWU pic.twitter.com/E2xmwcq0jKAnother opportunity accrued for the home side, but Furman was able to clear his lines when the ball looked to be trickling in after a goalmouth scramble.Bafana s Percy Tau came on as a substitute, and after being on the field for just 30 seconds, he was played in on the counter by Dolly, and the Sundowns striker was able to round Akpeyi and make the score 2-0 to Bafana to seal a well-earned victory.African News Agency