Tweets about #SLvSA AND(FROM:@ICC since:2017-06-03 until:2017-06-04) LONDON - The Proteas lost the toss with Sri Lanka and will have to bat first in the Group B match.It's the first match of Group B and Sri Lanka have won the toss and chosen to bowl first at The Oval! #SLvSA #CT17 https://t.co/I9Nfcr5ybM pic.twitter.com/yqLE9WFiycIt's D-Day! Reminder to catch our boys vs Sri Lanka in the #CT17 at The Oval. Build up from 10:30am (SAST) on SS2. #ProteaFire pic.twitter.com/aWb6J1nhMmImran Tahir and David Miller passed their respective fitness tests on Friday and are available for selection for the Group B clash.Captain AB de Villiers welcomed the duo s return, particularly Tahir who is the Proteas highest wicket-taker in the last year with 35 scalps at an average of 24.37.While Tahir is a straight pick, De Villiers says finding the perfect balance with the ball will be important against the sub-continent team. Imran is fit and he s our No. 1 bowler, our No. 1 spin bowler, said De Villiers at The Oval on Friday. Keshav (Maharaj) understands his role when it comes to that. There might be a time in the tournament where we might use a different strategy, if we play against a certain opposition or on a certain field. But for tomorrow, Imran is our top spin bowler and the No. 1 pick. That is a difficult decision, especially for a game like Saturday's, he said of selection.The tournament will be a chance for De Villiers and his men to reap the rewards of the hard work and progress they have made over the last 18 months, and will also be a glimpse of the future looking ahead to the ICC Cricket World Cup in 2019.Teams:South AfricaAB de Villiers (capt), Hashim Amla, Quinton de Kock (wkt), JP Duminy, Francois du Plessis, Imran Tahir, David Miller, Morne Morkel, Chris Morris, Wayne Parnell, Kagiso RabadaSri LankaUpul Tharanga (capt), Dinesh Chandimal, Niroshan Dickwella (wkt), Nuwan Pradeep, Asela Gunaratne, Chamara Kapugedera, Suranga Lakmal, Lasith Malinga, Kusal Mendis, Kusal Perera, Seekkuge Prasanna.Tweets about #ProteaFire AND(FROM:@OfficialCSA since:2017-06-03 until:2017-06-04African News Agency