JOHANNESBURG - The Muslim community of Lenasia, Johannesburg is appealing for a resolution to the strike by forensic pathologists at Gauteng mortuaries. Workers at the province s Forensic Pathology Services have downed tools for the second time in six months and bodies are piling up at some mortuaries, with families unable to get them released.Backlogs at Gauteng s mortuaries started on 8 June.READ: Army called in as bodies pile up at mortuariesForensic pathologists downed tools over working conditions, salaries, and equipment shortages.The strike immediately affected Lenasia s Muslim community. Muslims are required to bury their loved ones very soon after death.Lenasia imam Yusuf Sayed explained: Some have prescribed within 24 hours, but basically the ruling is 'as soon as possible'."The [burial] that we are having difficulty with is already over a week. His remains were taken to the Diepkloof Mortuary and there we seem to have a major problem that until now the body has not been released. Grieving families are having to travel from the Diepkloof to the Hillbrow mortuary to claim bodies.Saaberie Chishty chairperson Abbas Sayed said the South African National Defence Force had come in to assist but only in Hillbrow. "They haven t yet come to Diepkloof and that is where we are having the problem. Following a death on Saturday last week, a family from Botswana has been unable to return home while they wait for the burial. Now the whole family is here. They need to go back to work but they cannot go as they haven t yet buried their loved one, said Sayed.In the midst of the deadlock, people have stepped in to fill the void.Gauteng Health Department spokesperson Khutso Rabothata said volunteers from the SAPS Department of Anatomical Pathology and military health service personnel had come forward." This is the human solidarity that is beyond the call of duty. Meanwhile, a Muslim family has been granted a court order compelling the government to release the body of a 28-year-old man that has been held since Friday last week.The Gauteng Health Department will brief the media on Sunday on the latest developments. eNCA