JOHANNESBURG - SA Football Association (SAFA) president Danny Jordaan believes these are exciting times for South African football following what he describes as a massive win over Nigeria in a 2019 AFCON qualifier recently.In an interview Jordaan said: We now have to play Libya and Seychelles and if we win those matches then we will have a foot in the door for the 2019 tournament.READ: Baxter thanks clubs for releasing players for COSAFA Cup We must also not forget that our Under-17, Under-20 teams qualified for the World Cup while our Under-23 team went to the Olympics. These are the players that are coming through and this translates into a new dawn for South African football not just at the level of our men s national teams but also on the side of our women s team. Banyana Banyana qualified for the Olympics and also qualified for two consecutive Africa Cup of Nation tournaments in 2014 and 2016 and they are now preparing for the 2019 Women s World Cup qualifiers.It's #WCW. We are crushing on @LeAnDrA_sMeDa. The winger who can swing in a Beckham cross @SAFA_net @SasolSA pic.twitter.com/tTEMBRnGjwBafana are working hard towards qualifying for Russia where Jordaan feels they stand a good chance if they get a home and away victory against Cape Verde.READ: Bafana defeats Nigeria We will be on 10 points then we play Burkina Faso at home before our last match against Senegal and by then I am sure things should be clear of our prospects of us going to Russia. All of this is a result of hard work at grassroots level. We recently went to Kuruman where we saw some extraordinary talent. A young goalkeeper and in field players were spotted by Under-17 coach Molefi Ntseki and has called them up to the national team. Our agreement with the recent partnership with LaLiga creates opportunities for talented young South African players to be placed with some of the best clubs in Spain. So, I certainly hope that one or two of those players get the opportunity to train with one of the best teams in the world in Spain. This is going to be a miracle for these boys who come from Northern Cape towns of Kuruman and Kathu and make their communities proud and this is what football should do, create opportunities for young talented South Africans, concluded Jordaan.African News Agency