LONDON - The International Cricket Council s (ICC) Champions Trophy 2017 ended up in the hands of the lowest-ranked team of eight participants, adding fresh appeal to a tournament which proved, overall, to be a boon to the One-Day International (ODI) format.In many ways, Pakistan s rise from No. 8 in the ICC ODI rankings, to its maiden ICC Champions Trophy title, captured the essence of the tournament.At almost every press conference leading up to the tournament, the general public relations message was that the Champions Trophy was one tournament where there were no favourites, and that all teams had an equal chance.As things turned out, Pakistan s resurgence, after an Indian whipping early on, proved that the hype was partially true. The more cynical of the Bangladesh and SA fans may argue that neither had a realistic chance, the former not yet being strong enough and SA weighed down by a dismal history of failure in major ICC tournaments, the 1998 inaugural ICC Knock-out Trophy excepted.READ: Fakhar, Amir sparkle as Pakistan stun IndiaAfter a disheartening loss to India in its opening game, Pakistan stunned South Africa and edged Sri Lanka to make it to the knockout stages. If that was impressive, what followed surpassed it for spectacle. Pakistan thrashed England in the semi-final, by eight wickets, and India in the final, by 180 runs, to complete the dream run.The sight of thousands of less-than-gracious Indian fans in shock, streaming to The Oval Underground Station after 20 overs of India s innings, when the host broadcaster s blimp gave viewers an aerial shot, was unedifying, but spoke volumes for the rivalry between the subcontinental neighbours.The fact that the final featured these two nations saw a lucrative return for broadcasters and advertisers.There were other unpredictable and pleasing results in the two frenetic weeks, especially for neutral fans of the game. Bangladesh beat New Zealand to make it to its first semi-final in an ICC event, and Sri Lanka also got to hammer India in the group stage, proving that the gap between the sides is not too wide on a given day.The tournament also surprised many in that it didn t turn out to be a batsman-friendly contest. There was speculation, ahead of the start, that bowlers would have a tough task on flat pitches, but it was Pakistan s bowling attack which proved most decisive.Pakistani bowler Hasan Ali was named Player of the Tournament for his return of 13 wickets. With a bowler s contribution winning the prime award, it could not have been a batsman s paradise.READ: Pakistan stun South Africa in Champions TrophyScores in excess of 350 were expected to be the norm, but the highest score was 338, which came as late as the final Pakistan s winning total on Sunday.Most importantly, the intensity of the contests and the unpredictability of the outcomes made for appealing experiences and viewing for fans. The diversity of the United Kingdom s population ensured every team had substantial support and capacity crowds were welcomed.ICC chief executive, Dave Richardson, said: Overall, (we are) very satisfied with the Champions Trophy, across all aspects of the event really. From the enthusiasm of the volunteers to the broadcaster viewership, the digital content that we put out, umpiring, player behaviour, pitches everything went well. Obviously there were some challenges in the beginning, with the security situation after the attacks in Manchester and London, but the (organising) team worked through those well. The cricket has been great. It shows that, if you ve got context and competitive teams, you will have a great event. What a proud moment this could be for any Pakistani. I can only imagine. God Bless You Sarfraz. #Pakistan Zindabad pic.twitter.com/F4SrDl9khEIf there was one flaw, it was the weather in the initial part of the tournament. Two matches ended in a no-result due to rain, and both involved Australia. Fortunately, the weather cleared towards the knock-out phase of the tournament, but the earlier interruptions have made the administrators take notice. We had problems with the weather, which might prompt us to look a little bit more carefully at the potential for using reserve days for the ICC Cricket World Cup in 2019 in some way or the other, said Richardson.The World Cup (ODI cricket) is being held in England and Wales from May 30 to July 15, 2019.Richardson added: It seems to rain a lot in the UK but it doesn t impact that many games. You ll find that countries like South Africa, which are meant to be sunny countries places like Durban, it s always raining. So it s not as bad as you might imagine. But we can also deal with that by maybe specifying some reserve days. Not maybe for every match, but maybe one reserve day a week (on which) any rained-out match can be played something on those lines. With T20 cricket having come to international prominence in the last decade, many pundits had predicted a gloomy future for the two longer formats, especially one-day (50-over) cricket, as it was neither the pinnacle Test cricket nor the shortest form, which seemed to attract most modern fans with ever-shortening spans of attention, to the game.Fortunately the recent Champions Trophy, efficiently hosted and marketed by England and Wales, has arrested the decline for now.African News Agency