RUSTENBURG The ANC did not need the help of opposition parties to remove President Jacob Zuma, ANC national executive committee (NEC) member Mathole Motshekga said on Saturday. We do not need the DA or EFF to help us; we will remove him ourselves," he told a National Union of Mineworkers Youth Structure (NUMYS) rally in Rustenburg."We appeal to him (Zuma) to step down," he said. The motion of no confidence (to be scheduled for Parliament later) is irrelevant."ANC MPs are disciplined, whether the vote is secret or public they will never vote with the opposition."The DA's intention is not to remove Zuma but to remove the ANC from power, he said.WATCH: Speaker has power to decide on secret ballot: chief justiceThe ANC was in deep crisis because its members did not respect its constitution, traditions, and culture, Motshekga told the crowd. It is the tradition and culture of the ANC that deputy presidents succeed the president."It has happened with Oliver Tambo, it has happened with Nelson Mandela, Thabo Mbeki, and Jacob Zuma."Now is the time for Cyril Ramaphosa."If this culture and tradition is followed there will be no crisis in the ANC. The ANC had lost its values and needed to be renewed and reconnect with the people, he added.Earlier, trade union federation COSATU's deputy General Secretary Solly Phetoe said Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa was the only person who could save the ANC. We are not afraid to say comrade Ramaphosa is the only person who can save the ANC and restore it to its dignity it enjoyed during the time of (former president) Nelson Mandela."ANC members must fight and protect the ANC. READ: Cosatu clear it wants Zuma outPhetoe told the NUM youth to approach the ANC Youth League (ANCYL), which is backing Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to take over as leader of the ANC, while Cosatu and the South African Communist Party (SACP) support Ramaphosa. Go to the ANCYL, speak sense into them, tell them Ramaphosa is a capable leader."He served the ANC with loyalty; he did not leave the ANC when he was not elected deputy president in 1997, Phetoe said.Motshekga and Phetoe urged the young workers to participate in the activities of the ANC at branch level to ensure that the ANC served the will of the people. The policy conference is under threat; people are talking about the radical economic transformation while the ANC in Mangaung resolved that we are in the socio-economic phase. Do not be confused, Motshekga said. Influence decisions at the branch; participate in branch activities."In December, looting must stop. Thieves must be arrested and put in jail, he said.Despite Ramaphosa s absence at the rally, union members sang leadership dumela Ramaphosa dumela in his honour.African News Agency