PORT ELIZABETH Several fires raged across Nelson Mandela Bay in the Eastern Cape on Wednesday.Homes in Colleen Glen and Maitlands area were under threat, as fire fighting teams attempted to douse the flames on Wednesday evening.Resident, James Riley who is at the scene, said that the fires were spread out in the area and strong winds were not helping the situation. #KnysnaFire: This is the Water Bridge B&B up in flames, video by @Snazo_Gulwa. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/Xm9A9je4WjRiley added that one home in Bushbuck Ridge was threatened by the blaze but teams managed to save the structure.Riley said that fire fighting teams were waiting at different spots in the area as the blaze continued.Municipality spokesperson, Mthubanzi Mniki said that there was also a large vegetation fire in the Greenbushes area.Mniki said six vehicles had been dispatched and the fire fighting teams were still trying to contain the blaze.Meanwhile, in the Kouga Area there was also a vegetation fire. #KnysnaFire: Andy is watching his place getting destroyed by blaze, there's absolutely nothing he can do. #sabcnews Video by @Snazo_Gulwa pic.twitter.com/elkry4OfrsMniki said a team managed to get the fire under control while they continue to dampen down the area. In Van Stadens near Witteklip there is a large vegetation fire. One vehicle has already been dispatched and currently on site, more will be dispatched, Mniki said. In Bushbuckridge area, there is also a vegetation fire. Two vehicles are on the way, said Mniki.Mniki said emergency services managed to put under control a number of fires across the metro but the blaze in Bushbuck Ridge area continued to pose a threat. The main remaining area that continues to threaten property and pose dangers to motorists, people and domestic animals is the fire at the Bushbuckridge area close to Greenbushes. The #KnysnaFire from the Mossel Bay Harbour.... Mossel Bay is 109km away by road. Gives you an deal of the sheer size of the blaze. pic.twitter.com/801tJgVrHeStrong winds are making it difficult to extinguish the fire, he said.Draaifontein Road is closed and traffic officers are on site to control traffic.Drivers are advised to avoid driving through the smoke as this has the potential to cause accidents.African News Agency