PRETORIA The Tshwane municipality on Thursday said it was introducing several interventions to correct a defective agreement entered into by the previous administration led by former mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa and Project Isizwe, the current service provider of the capital city s flagship free Wi-Fi programme, known as TshWi-Fi.READ: Free wi-fi for Nelson Mandela Bay citizens The City of Tshwane has made an important breakthrough in its mission to put its world-famous free Wi-Fi offering on a lawful and sustainable footing. In so doing, we are also responding to findings by the Auditor-General against the previous administration s expenditure on the Tshwane free Wi-Fi, Tshwane MMC for corporate and shared services Cilliers Brink said. The Executive Mayor Solly Msimanga is on record that our administration will do everything in its power to save TshWi-Fi and even to expand the quality and the reach of the current service. In the 2017/18 financial year, the City has budgeted R88.5 million for the provision of the free Wi-Fi. So we are putting the money of the city where our mouths are. Brink said after months of negotiation with Project Isizwe, a set of solutions would now be presented before Council. This solution will need to be approved by the City Council at its June meeting, and is summarised as follows: The contract between the City and Project Isizwe will be amended to allow for maintaining the quality and the reach of the current free Wi-Fi offering, said Brink.He said the existing agreement with Project Isizwe will run until December this year to enable the City to put the operation and maintenance of the free Wi-Fi service out to tender or to find some other means of maintaining the service without relying on a single supplier. In the meantime, the city and Project Isizwe will continue to test the commercial potential of free Wi-Fi as an advertising space, and all revenue raised in this manner will accrue to the City. The details of how exactly the free Wi-Fi network will be operated by a service provider other than Project Isizwe will be finalised in the next four months to allow for proper supply chain management processes to be followed, said Brink. We acknowledge that although its means of procurement of Tshwane free Wi-Fi was defective [but] the city did receive a substantial benefit from its investment in free Wi-Fi. Brink said the Auditor-General informed the incumbent Tshwane administration last year that the Wi-Fi expenditure initiated by the African National Congress-led administration had been irregular. The first sites [Wi-Fi hotspots] have already expired by December, namely the University of Pretoria, two sites at the Tshwane University of Technology, one at the Mamelodi Community Centre and at Church Square. Those were the five initial sites, and according to contracts, they expired in December. The problem was that in about October, the Auditor-General informed the City of Tshwane that the previous administration s spending on free Wi-Fi was irregular, said Brink. We were immediately candid about this. We started [new] negotiations with Project Isizwe and we basically said there was no way we could renew services to those five initial sites and continue to incur irregular expenditure. We had to find a new model, hence the negotiations. The concession on their part was to keep services to those five sites running since December basically. Brink said the current cost for the roll-out of 11 phases of the free Wi-Fi up to June 2016 was R320 million, with the actual expenditure to date for 2016/17 of R78 million. He also said the current budget for the 2017/18 financial year stood at R88.5 million. With the short-term of free Wi-Fi secured, the ingenuity of the private sector now becomes crucial to securing the service in the long-term. It is simply not possible for the city to sustain its full subsidy of free Wi-Fi indefinitely, or to fund the expansion of the network on its own, he said. Free Wi-Fi is about individual opportunity and potential. It gives ordinary people a small hand-up to improve their lives. And it serves the vision of the DA-led multi-party government of an opportunity city. So while this city government may not have conceived of free Wi-Fi, our aim is to perfect it. He said compelling evidence existed that greater Internet penetration drove economic growth.Brink was flanked at the media briefing by Finance MMC, Mare-Lise Fourie, and acting Governance Support Officer, Mayur Maganlal.African News Agency