JOHANNESBURG - Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi will write a letter to the Health Ombudsman, Prof. Malegapuru Makgoba, asking his office to institute an investigation into allegations that drivers, cleaners and other unqualified persons are performing post-mortems in the public health facilities in South Africa.This is according to a statement released by Joe Maila, the spokesperson for the Ministry of Health. "I am writing a letter to the Health Ombud to investigate this claim. All those that made this claim must appear in front of the Ombud to expantiate and prove that claim," it qoutes Motsoaledi as saying.Motsoaledi urged all affected offices and individuals to cooperate with the Office of the Health Ombudsman during the investigation as "the country wishes to know the truth."He said the Department of Health will take stern action on those responsible if the claim is found to be true.Earler, The Democratic Alliance (DA) said that Gauteng Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa had mishandled the strike by forensic assistants by not getting a court order against it. She is bumbling from one crisis to another, including the disgraceful non-payment of subsidies to 159 NGOs looking after mental health and other patients, DA spokesperson on health, Jack Bloom, said in a statement.READ: Health unions, govt come to agreement on mortuary 'strike'Workers affiliated to the South African Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) embarked on a strike demanding similar benefits to pathologists. The illegal strike by forensic assistants in the 10 Gauteng state mortuaries has dragged on for three weeks despite concessions made to meet the demands of the workers, Bloom said.Bloom added that pathologists were doing the best they could with 10 military medics and eight volunteers from the National Association of Funeral Directors assisting them, although the backlog was still about 200 bodies. Autopsies are taking more than seven days instead of one day, to the great distress of families who have to delay funerals, he said. Unions representing the workers are being unreasonable and cruel in continuing this illegal strike in an essential service. Bloom said he welcomed the intervention by Gauteng Premier David Makhura to promise payments to mental health NGOs by the end of this week. I agree with his statement that the health department needs a big shake-up and I hope that the cabinet committee he has set up to assist Health MEC Ramokgopa is successful. He said the Health Department had to get it right as many previous efforts to turn around the department had failed. Makhura s intervention is urgently needed to resolve the mortuary strike as well. - Additional reporting: African News Agency. eNCA