KOSTER- Kgetleng Rivier local municipality is one of the few municipalities in the North West with over 98% access rate of electricity supply, mayor Kim Medupe said on Wednesday. We are delighted as the municipality to report that the Ratsegae community is finally receiving the attention it deserves on the connection of electricity. The municipality worked tirelessly with Eskom to ensure that this area is prioritised and indeed our efforts bore the desired results, she said tabling the municipality s budget in Ratsegae near Koster.Speaking from a small white tent, pitched on a dusty ground with about 100 community braving the cold weather to hear the budget speech, Medupe said although the municipality had managed to electrify most areas under its jurisdiction, the stability of network remains a problem.Read: Government to outline plans for Cape drought The two substations in Koster and Swartruggens requires major overhaul in the next few years to ensure continued supply of electricity to our communities. The undesirable state of our infrastructure is further exacerbated by cowardly acts of sabotage She said the municipality was recovering from the effects the drought. The devastating impact of the drought is having on our infrastructure is unimaginable. Due to the severity of the drought, the water infrastructure became rusted and consequently prone to a lot of breakages and damages, thus impacting on our beloved communities, said Medupe. The continued breakdowns resulted in in excessive repairs and maintenance cost being incurred by the municipality. This resulted in serious burden to the already ailing financial health of the municipality. Medupe tabled a R197-million budget for the 2017/18 financial year and was expected to increased to R216-million and R242-million for the two outer years of the medium term revenue and expenditure framework.Read: Cape Town water crisis worsens Over 40 percent of the total budget is from government grants. This is a clear indication of the municipality s reliance on government grant funding, Medupe said. Our total operating expenditure stands at R188-million for the 2017/18 financial year and will grow to R209-million over the MTREF [medium term revenue and expenditure framework] period. Included in the above figure is employee related cost, which stands at R51-million for the financial year in question. This represent just over 27 percent of the total operating budget. Kgetlengrivier municipality is made of Derby, Koster and Swartruggens.In her budget speech delivered later on Wednesday, the mayor of Bojanala Platinum District Municipality, Fetsang Mokati, said the district municipality would be supporting Kgetlengrivier to reduce both unaccounted for water losses and replacement of old asbestos pipes with modern infrastructure.African News Agency