JOHANNESBURG - I have a high regard for the system of voluntary ombudsmen. Customers who are unhappy with the treatment they get from sectors such as insurance, life assurance and banking can complain to them.They provide a free service and, best of all, the members of the scheme agree to abide by the ombudsman s ruling.There is an appeal process, though it is rarely used and there is certainly no need to get the courts involved.READ: Short-term insurance sector declineThis is in contrast to the compulsory ombuds. No company agreed to any terms and conditions from, say, the pension fund adjudicator. A few years ago, the life offices regularly took the adjudicator to court on the issue of poor termination values on retirement products.That is not to say the ombudsmen are simply consumer advocates.Only lawyers can apply for the jobs because the legal issues are very detailed. And the law is applied with no particular compassion for the customer.But the ombudsmen do not stick rigidly to the law. There has been a change of approach from the ombudsman for short-term insurance, which calls itself Osti. Deanne Wood was appointed to the job in 2016 after a busy career at the bar, where she rose to senior counsel.She was the first member of generation X to be appointed in the voluntary ombudsman system. And this fiery redhead has a dynamic approach.She says that technological advances and ever-increasing social media have a significant effect on the way in which the insurance industry operates. Consumers who may in the past have succeeded in taking a chance or presenting alternative facts to insurance companies are often caught out by comments in social media platforms that contradict information given to their insurance company. A common illustration of this, she says, is information given about the regular driver of a vehicle. Older drivers pay significantly lower premiums than younger drivers, so there can be a large saving by claiming, even when it isn t true, than an older relative is the regular driver.WATCH: Insurance seekers said to not be fully truthful in their applicationsWood says there are far too many cases coming into the office where parents claim to be the regular driver of cars used by their children. Some youngsters were dumb enough to boast on Facebook about their new car the one insurers thought the parents drove.Customers can t be surprised in cases like this if a claim is rejected when a loss is suffered, and there is not much sympathy from Wood and her Osti team.One of her assistant ombudsmen, Kgomotso Molopo, points out that premiums are determined by insurers based on the information provided by the insured. The insured has a duty to disclose information that may affect the underwriting of the policy. Failure to disclose the required information will result in the insurer suffering prejudice by collecting an incorrect (lower) premium, and this will affect the insured when a claim is submitted.It was interesting to see the cases Wood included in the Osti annual report. They aren t designed to make her look like the consumer s champion, but fair to both sides.A complainant approached Osti after a claim was rejected by Alexander Forbes Insurance for a stolen car. But an assessor found that the vehicle had been registered in the name of a car rental company, written off in 2015 and sold for scrap. The complainant could not produce proof of purchase or give details of the woman he claimed had sold him the car.In another case, against Santam, a complainant handed over the keys to his vehicle, which he had sold, to a third party who claimed to be acting on behalf of the buyer. But the seller found that he had been given a false proof of payment by the buyer and reported the car as stolen.The complainant claimed that he had not been informed about the terms and conditions of the policy by his broker. Osti found that there was a policy exclusion for theft under false pretences and found in favour of the insurer.OUTsurance also featured in a case study. With its cheesy lean on me advertising campaign you might think it never gets referred to Osti. But it received 454 complaints, the most for any direct insurer except MiWay.OUTsurance received a claim after a road accident in Zimbabwe. The client did not pay his premium for June 2016 as he was attending his father s funeral. There was no expectation from the client that the claim would be rejected in fact the good folk of OUTsurance had agreed to assess the claim, the client believed, as part of a verbal agreement.It was, however, clearly stated in the insurance contract (as in just about every such contract) that if the premium is not paid on the agreed date (in this case the 30th of the month) there is a 15-day grace period in which to pay. The insurer tried to get a premium out of the client s account at the end of this period. As it was unsuccessful, there was no cover.Osti listened to the conversation about the attempted claim on tape. The insurer did not undertake to settle even if the premium was received. So the ombudsman found that no new agreement had been concluded and that the insurer was entitled to reject the claim.OUTsurance had made an assessment of the vehicle s damage and Wood concluded that this was not an admission of liability.She nonetheless says that it is important that consumers feel listened to, even if they don t always win.iNet Bridge