KNYSNA - President Jacob Zuma will on Thursday visit communities affected by the fires in Knysna and Plettenberg Bay.Thousands had to flee their homes when massive wildfires devastated the area last week.At least seven people died, including a firefighter. A number of cabinet ministers and deputies will accompany Zuma.The visit comes as Western Cape Premier, Helen Zille, and her cabinet assess the damage and monitor humanitarian relief.Authorities say all the fires in the area have been contained.READ: How to help during the #CapeFires and stormsThe Western Cape Government has earmarked R75 million for rebuilding fire-ravaged Knysna, as well as other areas damaged by last week s Cape storm.In a statement, Michael Mpofu, spokesperson for Zille, said the Western Cape Cabinet made the decision at a meeting in Knysna earlier on Wednesday. Ongoing assistance will also be provided to the respective municipalities worst affected by the current drought, which resulted in a recent Disaster Classification. Zille said: Our government is committed to working with the local authorities to rebuild the lives of residents who have suffered great loss. This initial allocation of R75 million is a first step in this process. We will continually reassess the needs and priorities going forward. Mpofu said the money would be used as follows: Transport and Public Works R5-million to deal with road-related infrastructure damages and an additional R800,000 for the transport cost of the emergency evacuations; R15-million for school infrastructure as a result of adverse weather conditions and fires. The 2017 Main Budget made substantial funding available to Education for maintenance and these funds are already in the baseline of the Department. R1.2-million for Health infrastructure as a result of the storm and the fire. In addition, R15-million to support the Department to deal with the cost associated with the Swartland Hospital, particularly for prefabricated units, replacement linen and technology. The 2017 Main Budget also made substantial funding available to Health for maintenance and these funds are already in the baseline of the department. Human Settlements R7.5-million to deal with the displacement of people due to adverse weather conditions and fires in the City of Cape Town and fires in the Eden District with the focus mainly on the rural areas.READ: Getting ahead of Free State fires R5 million for the Department of Social Development for emergency humanitarian support and related expenditure to deal with the most vulnerable. The Department of Local Government: R15-million for disaster management co-ordination, drought assistance and key related infrastructure requirements at municipalities within the Provincial Government mandate. Within the Department of Local Government, funding for support to the municipalities have been strengthened in the 2017/18 Budget and departmental allocations to deal with the drought and climate response. Agriculture, R5.5-million as a funding intervention to mitigate the impact of natural and biological disasters on the agricultural sector at large. R3-million for Environmental Affairs and Development Planning (Cape Nature, Working on Fire). R2-million for Community Safety for security requirements at care facilities. - Additional reporting African News Agency eNCA