JOHANNESBURG The South Africa National Taxi Council is threatening to bring the country to its knees if government doesn't sort out problems with operating licenses.Taxi owners, who went on strike on strike on Thursday morning, are upset over the cost of instalments on their vehicles.Santaco has warned that their members will shut down the country's transport system if their pleas fall on deaf ears. There could be another march on the 12th of July, said Thulani Qwabe from TaxiChoice. That depends on how quickly these 32 companies and government decide to resolve the problems. If they want to mess about there will be a much bigger strike. Today was nothing compared to what is coming on the 12th of July, it's not just Gauteng but the whole country."READ: TaxiStrike called off - Santaco confirmsSantaco members gathered at Emperor's Palace on Thursday afternoon for a media briefing on Thursday's strike action. Many of the drivers here are not sold on the new deal reached by SANTACO and SA Taxi finance. #Taxistrike pic.twitter.com/PtqPH8YBff Drivers who gathered there, questioned why SA Taxi Finance came to deal so quickly and why the finance company wasn't addressing them. Response from Santaco to drivers unhappiness with new deal with SA Taxi Finance.#Taxistrike pic.twitter.com/8KYpvavipj Santaco denied that there was violence at some protests on Thursday.Members blocked some of Gauteng's major roads on Thursday, mainly in Midrand. [WATCH] Phillip Taaibosch from Santaco says the #TaxiStrike was a peaceful protest. pic.twitter.com/oqhBnVenTY The protests led to Gauteng's main route between Johannesburg and Pretoria being blocked. Major routes running through the two cities were affected as thousands of commuters were left stranded.Some truck drivers were allegedly intimidated and gunshots were fired near the Mall of Africa.READ: Transport minister slams taxi protestSantaco President Phillip Taaibosch says he doesn't want all taxi operators to be blamed for the actions of a few. "We must be very careful in generalising because at stages when we generalise and we cannot point at the fault, said Taaibosch. I must indicate that you cannot say when one person begins to disrespect that it s the entire community. So it is very important that we should not generalise." Taaibosch says there's a need to go back to drawing board. #TaxiStrike pic.twitter.com/0KNFeQy0Ac Phillip Taaibosch message to government. #TaxiStrike pic.twitter.com/nFnYsHaU8n The strike was called off just before midday after taxi operators reached an agreement with the SA Taxi Foundation. Tweets about #TaxiStrike AND (FROM:@KhayaJames since:2017-06-15 until:2017-06-16) AFP