VENTERSDORP - The official Youth Day commemoration takes place in Ventersdorp, where young people hope President Jacob Zuma will act to improve their lives.READ: JB Marks statue unveiled in VentersdorpeNCA visited the area ahead of the event, to find what issues young people of this community face.Our Reporter Zikhona Tshona and Cameraman Gift Kganyago arrived in Tshing, Vestersdorp's largest township, at midmorning.As in many other townships, it was not unusual to see young people hanging around during working hours.They say they're frustrated by the lack of jobs and skills development. There are no services in Ventersdorp. Most of the youth here are unemployed, the infrastructure is poor and ANC councillors don t take us seriously, especially the youth," said one resident Rosina Moleme.She survives on her two children's social grants. There is no hope here because there no jobs. When we ask about jobs we get told about Potch or Klerksdorp, Moleme said.Those who ve lived here all their lives say they face a bleak reality."I'm 27-years-old. I grew up here in Vestersdorp and completed matric in 2010. I worked until 2013. After that I could not find a job," said Enoch Adoons, another resident.His work was on nearby a farm. Then he was retrenched. A lot of young people in Ventersdop work on the farms. But the white people don t treat us well. When you stand up for yourself you get fired for nothing, said AdoonsHe says studying further is not an option as he doesn't have the funds.The other possibility - odd municipal jobs like cleaning the streets or community halls. This is not the job I wanted, but there is no choice. We don t want to do crime, so we keep ourselves busy with this job," said Samuel Diphoko another resident. " I wish I could go and work elsewhere. There are no jobs here, crime is going up, there is gangsterism and people are mugged, people get stabbed. We are trying to avoid that, by doing this kind of job, he said.Young people hang out at the local stadium to access free wifi.It's where President Jacob Zuma will speak on Youth Day.The young people of Ventersdorp want to hear the president say how they will create jobs for them. They say they are tired of walking the township's streets, day in, day out. And they know there s not much of a future for them, if they stay there.eNCA