JOHANNESBURG Bafana Bafana coach Stuart Baxter is optimistic about his side s chances in their Africa Cup of Nations 2019 qualifier in Uyo against hosts Nigeria on Saturday. Stuart Baxter calls for smart, brave Bafana vs. Nigeria https://t.co/BeIjb3T2dY #soccer #ESPN pic.twitter.com/A2VVsHdqdP The preparations have gone according to expectations. While I could have done with more time, I believe the hours we have put in this past week should suffice, said Baxter. I can t see anything more I could have done with this group with more time that I have not done. Could I have done more than we did already? I don t think so. You also don t want to disturb your players with lots of details which might be counter-productive. In short I can say, I am excited, ready and of course a bit nervous. Stuart Baxter says he has some unfinished business with @BafanaBafana as he prepares for his first clash back in charge against Nigeria. pic.twitter.com/QoELUdM16EThe Bafana mentor says he is aware of the magnitude of Saturday s game in which both sides need a good result to kick start their 2019 AFCON campaign. I was watching a few of their players on television on Thursday night. They sounded bullish but at the same time are very uncomfortable. I think we have done a good job, I am excited but of course, we get nervous here and there; it s part of the game, said Baxter.The coach said he already had his starting lineup in his head but would confirm it once the team has had their final training session at the match venue on Friday. He, however, insisted the mental approach would be key to the final outcome on Saturday. Handing over the captain armband; Bafana Bafana coach Stuart Baxter and Thulani Hlatshwayo. Congrats Tyson!!@SAFA_net @DChimhavi pic.twitter.com/CbJwWL9HJS How do you react when things don t go your way or as planned? Must we panic or react? If we react positively to any situation, we have a good chance of coming out with a solid result, said the Bafana coach. We need to be brave and adapt, but never feel inferior. Nigeria need to win this one and they would go at us but this is where we need to be smart. If they all pour forward, throw caution to the wind, we need to defend well and then exploit gaps at the back. This is when we need to react smart. @BafanaBafana Head Coach Stuart Baxter speaking this morning about facing Nigeria in Nigeria #BafanaKoafela pic.twitter.com/ZybltrVYOTBafana fly home on Sunday and go straight to Rustenburg where they will play Zambia in an international friendly on Tuesday at Moruleng Stadium. African News Agency