CAPE TOWN The Chamber of Mines rejected the 2017 Mining Charter published by the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) on Thursday, saying it will challenge the document in court to prevent it from being implemented. The Charter mandates that a minimum of 30 percent of South African mining companies has to be in the hands of black partners, raising the threshold from 26 percent.The department is yet to decide whether firms have to retain that structure permanently.In addition, mining prospecting rights need to have a minimum of 50 percent plus one black ownership, while companies will be required to give eight percent of their shares to workers. The Chamber has advised its legal counsel to pursue the declaratory order relating to continuing consequences, which it has previously suspended in the interests of trying to reach a sensible agreement with the DMR. Further, the Chamber will seek an interdict to suspend the implementation of the Charter and to take the DMR Charter on review, the Chamber said in a media release.The industry body said it was not consulted and blamed the department for setting unworkable targets" that would damage investment. The lack of meaningful engagement with the industry, and collective engagement with all stakeholders, has been most disappointing, said Chamber of Mines president Mxolisi Mgojo.READ: Markets fall after new mining charter is published It would be irresponsible of the industry to accede to unworkable targets and unnecessary institutions that are not founded in reality, or that do not have the interests of the industry at its heart. We are committed to being part of a process that arrives at an outcome that is aimed at simultaneously transforming, growing and sustaining the industry. The Chamber rejected claims that the industry was not interested in transformation. A great deal of progress has been made by the industry on transformation, but the journey is not yet over."By way of example, Chamber members have achieved ownership empowerment levels of 38 percent on average (compared to the 26 percent target set out by the Mining Charter), it said. The value of empowerment transactions since 2000 amounts to over R205-billion in 2014 money terms," the Chamber added."The value of meaningful economic value transfer between 2000 and 2014 amounts to R159-billion."Currently, more than 50 percent of management positions are occupied by historically disadvantaged South Africans. New Mining Charter will be "disaster" for industryThe DA said the new Mining Charter would lead to more damage than benefit to the mining industry and its workers. In presenting his new rules, which amount to a massive giveaway of mine value to the ANC s favoured groups, Minister Zwane has opened the doors to more ANC crony enrichment, said DA MP, James Lorimer. The DA supports share schemes for miners when they are structured to benefit the workers and are economically viable."One way of diversifying the mining sector would be to bring mine workers into mining schemes."It s pointless to try and diversify if it leads to the collapse of companies. READ: More mining jobs at stake on policy uncertainty: Amplats CEOHe said the new targets for exploration would lead to the death of prospection. The BEE sector is perennially short of cash, particularly for speculative actions like prospecting."The amount of prospecting will plummet."Even if there are new finds, capital will be extremely difficult to raise, he said.Meanwhile, the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) said it will first study the new Charter before commenting. The union will study the Charter and align it with various union submissions to the Department of Mineral Resources during the consultation period."Most importantly in the areas of ownership (with specific focus on employee share ownership schemes), Human Resource Development, Employment Equity and Housing and Living Conditions (especially ensuring mining companies contribute financially towards employee accessing home ownership), NUM said in a statement.African News Agency