PRETORIA - Desperate unemployed youths from across the country, have been conned out of thousands of rands by a bogus army general. They paid for uniforms, registration and food, which were all part of a promise for a job in the military. But instead, they were left stranded in Pretoria with no job in sight. One person has been arrested. A group of youngsters were part of hundreds who were recruited by a man allegedly posing as a military general. A recruit, Ntombi Ndlovu explains what happened to them. “He explained to us that we are here for basic training for military force it's going to take 3 months and registration is R300 and R200 for contributions which we also paid and R100 for food which we must all get together so we can eat three times a day which happened and R120 for a membership card. We paid R350 for a uniform which never came.”
	 
	The recruits claim they frequently conducted military drills in full uniform and at times carrying guns in this rather leafy suburb. READ: Oudtshoorn army school under investigation “The training was unusual. We used to roll in mud, while he poured us with water, we used to take part in drills, saluting him. The training was difficult and some of us have conditions maybe if you faint then he says - aaagh leave him there he's faking it,“ says Ndlovu. And it’s at this house that hundreds of them waited for the promise of being recruited as SANDF officers to materialise.
	 
	They lived in this backyard and salvaged for food. Some recruits left the premises looking for help. The neighbours suspected something wasn’t quite right behind this gate and called the police. “I had a suspicion because if they were supposed to train it would not be in a residential area,” Joshua Papa Joe, a neighbour said.
	 
	Police suspect this operation has been ongoing for over a year. “We dispatched a total of 22 social workers and auxiliary workers, we provided accommodation at the Salvation Army and all humanitarian care was provided and looking to assure that they got back home," said Mbangwa Xaba from the Gauteng Social Development Department
	
	55-year-old Petrus Ndaba appeared in court on a charge of theft under false pretence. His case was postponed to July for a bail application. eNCA