LOS ANGELES - When he was a teenager back in the mid-1980s, O Shea Jackson split his time between playing football for William Howard Taft High School in Woodland Hills, and writing his earliest rhymes as a South L.A. rapper named Ice Cube. Toast to all my Day 1 Riders! If it wasn't for you, I wouldn't be getting a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. -- pic.twitter.com/u18nM25rTpHe didn t yet have a car, and his bus route to school involved making a pit stop on Hollywood Boulevard, where the now-storied rapper-actor will receive a star on the Walk of Fame on June 12. I had to catch the 210 bus down Crenshaw, then you would change buses in Hollywood, Cube remembers. And it s dope, because I walked through Hollywood as a kid, trying to catch a bus to the Valley on my way to football practice. Now I m gonna have a star there, and some kid like me, on his way to practice or whatever, is gonna see my name down there, and have hopes and dreams of getting theirs down there too. .@drdre and O'Shea Jackson Jr. were on hand for @icecube's Walk of Fame ceremony https://t.co/V2VlNnPJsV pic.twitter.com/wNDoFv6traAt 47, Cube insists I still feel like a young man, but his time in the business has stretched on for long enough that he can spend equal time taking stock of his career and chasing new ventures. It was roughly 30 years ago, after all, that the teenage Cube wrote Boyz-n-the-Hood for a first-time rapper named Eazy-E, planting the seeds for N.W.A. a group that remains vital enough to have been the subject of a $202 million-grossing biopic two years ago, while also having become enough of an historical touchstone to be enshrined in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.Read: Ice Cube appeals to 'good cops' in new protest songEven as he s seen his own life play out onscreen, he continues to be a regular presence in cinemas, having just signed on to star in Before I Disappear, from Patriots Day writer Josh Zetumer. A longtime sports nut who directed an ESPN 30 for 30 segment inspired by his love of the L.A. Raiders, Cube will also now attempt to dip his toes into sports moguldom later this month with the launch of Big 3, his nascent professional three-on-three basketball league. NEWEST MEMBER OF THE HOLLYWOOD WALK OF FAME: ICE CUBE ---- WELL DESERVED pic.twitter.com/v1ssMm5OmgAnd just last month, Cube announced the first major label music deal of his career, signing to Interscope Records. The deal was inaugurated last Friday with a re-release of Cube s 1991 solo album, Death Certificate. It makes sense for a lot of reasons, Cube says of the Interscope pact, after years of releasing albums through his indie imprint Lench Mob Records. Interscope has always been on the cutting edge of what s hot in music, so it s cool to be associated with a label that s done so much in hip-hop. And Interscope is in charge of a lot of my catalog masters, so to work closer made sense. As for Lench Mob, we still run it like an independent label, so it s cool now to have dough from the big boys to get some of these new ideas out to the public. For anyone who knows Cube primarily through his film career and It Was a Good Day, discovering Death Certificate upon its re-release should offer a sharp shock to the system. Among the most controversial albums ever released, Death Certificate was recorded in the uneasy interim between the Rodney King beating and the L.A. riots that followed, and saw Cube take on virtually all of the era s most delicate issues with bomb-throwing indelicacy. The reissue includes three new songs, which Cube says feel like they could ve been made at the same time as the album; they have the same sonic vision and message. One of the few products of the gangsta rap boom that remains just as boundary-pushing as when it was first released, the racially charged Death Certificate is a complicated masterpiece. The nuanced social-ills screeds A Bird in the Hand and Alive on Arrival could apply just as powerfully to Donald Trump s America as they did to Darryl Gates Los Angeles. Streaming live from the Hollywood Walk of Fame Ceremony. Tune in here: https://t.co/NK8TConEwb pic.twitter.com/Wc1pQ5h8SL Oh, it s raw, Cube says with a small laugh. But that s what I love about that record. It criticizes all races, for the most part. Straight Outta Compton did the same thing, he continues. That record was talking about the 80s, but with Ferguson and all the other protests and riots that happened, it feels so present. It s not ancient history, it s not even recent history. It s today. And that s an indictment on society, not the record. @icecube getting his on the Hollywood Walk of Fame 6.12.2017 pic.twitter.com/EoE0D0vbsg I think it actually started with Kanye doing a record like Jesus Walks at the time he did, and as big as he got at the time. I think that was a significant record to let people know the content doesn t have to be stuck in clubs, money, drinking, jewelry, excess. I think he did a lot to really get people to start thinking back to the essence of the game, which is trying to make sense of this crazy fucking planet. Read: White bouncer says Lil Wayne attack was racially motivated Even a movie like Dallas Buyers Club has to be independently done. It s a shame studios never see the value in doing those movies until after they re done, when it blows up at some f king festival. As an actor, Cube has tried his hand at arthouse pics (David O. Russell s Three Kings ) and off-the-wall action ( xXx: State of the Union ), but he s found his greatest success in comedy. That doesn t mean he isn t looking to stretch, however, and he reveals he still has a few white whale roles he s chasing as a movie star.When a West Coast legend gets his star on the Hollywood walk of fame ------ -------- @icecube the realist ___________ #west #west pic.twitter.com/7RnrNWE3Gw I ve been waiting my whole life for that Charles Bronson Death Wish kinda action-drama role, he says. But as a black actor, I feel like you have to follow your trajectory. If you re doing good in comedy, you gotta do a few of them before you switch it up. Especially if you re trying to be a lead actor. I ll still support, but I m not trying to be a support in every damn movie I do. I feel like I m a lead actor, and sometimes you gotta wait for your spot. Reuters