OSTRAVA - Jamaican sprinting legend Usain Bolt has given an indication, on Monday at a press conference in Ostrava, in the Czech Republic, that the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) World Championships in London in August, may not be his final event.Bolt is in the eastern Czech Republic for the Ostrava Golden Spike meeting an IAAF World Challenge event to compete in the 100 metres at the Mestsky Stadion on Wednesday.The world record holder and reigning Olympic champion in the men s 100m, 200m and 4x100m relay, confirmed that 2017 would be his last season, but that he may carry on competing this year after the London championships. Bolt had stated on more than one occasion in the past that the World Championships would be the finale to his illustrious career.READ: De Grasse has awakened the sleeping giant that is BoltBarring incident or eight better teams, which is unlikely Jamaica should qualify for the 4x100metres men s relay final on August 12, which would have been Bolt s last competitive race.He had consulted with his coach, Glen Mills, about the timing of his retirement, but both are now undecided. We haven t fully made up our mind on what we re doing yet, he told reporters on Monday. I m not worrying about that until the World Championships, or at least getting close to it. Right now, I m just focused on getting through the season. I just like entertaining the crowd. I definitely want to try and enjoy every minute of it it won t be the same sat in the stadium. Bolt appeared irritated by repeated questions regarding possible participation in the 200m in London, stating categorically that he would not be entering the race.READ: Jamaican track fans ready to party with BoltBolt has eight Olympic gold medals from three consecutive Olympic Games, recently losing the ninth to disqualification. Jamaica was recently stripped of the 4x100m title from Beijing, due to one of Bolt s relay teammates, Nesta Carter, testing positive for a banned substance, discovered using new anti-doping technology.Bolt added: It s just been a great career. I ve really enjoyed the ups and downs, all the experience I ve gathered, all I ve been through, the happiness and the sadness. It s been a wonderful career and I ve done everything I ve wanted to do and it s coming to an end and I m fine with it. It s an emotional season. African News Agency