JOHANNESBURG - Police suspected Yizo Yizo star Jabu Christopher Kubheka committed suicide.Police spokesman Mavela Masondo said Kubheka, popularly known as "Gunman", was found hanging from a burglar door in his house in Soshanguve on Monday afternoon. Police have opened an inquest docket and the cause of death will be known once we have received post mortem results, said Masondo. The actor played Gunman in Yizo Yizo and appeared as Bazooka in the drama series Zone 14.He also starred in Gold Diggers, Generations, Jacob s Cross and Zabalaza.Popular DJ and record company Kalawa Jazzmee co-founder Oskido, described Kubheka as an all-round entertainer. #Sad news... pic.twitter.com/A1bFyfHVQD Kubheka s passing is a huge loss to the entertainment industry because he was exceptionally good in acting and music."He worked closely with Mandla Spikiri and many will remember him on Mahoota s song Phul iqolo. That song did well on the charts and best introduced us to Kubheka s musical side. We are still shocked that he is no more. As Kalawa Jazzmee we send condolences to his family and friends, said Oskido.Only few still remember njengoba sebagobisa iqolo 2008 besi phula iqolo with @djmahoota vs vetkuk #RIPGunman pic.twitter.com/UpOoPnegymSouth Africans have taken to social media to send messages of support to the late actor's family . We send our deepest sympathies to the family of popular Yizo Yizo and Zone 14 actor Jabu Christopher Kubheka who has tragically passed away. pic.twitter.com/nHYmqePphgMay your soul Rest in Peace #Gunman . Pity you left before you tell us what "jou sataratawu" meant. Farewell pic.twitter.com/gl4bANyMV0RIP to this legend! #Gunman. So glad I got to take this pic with you! #YizoYizo pic.twitter.com/wxYOAQSWrb"Sis Portia I just want to act.That's all" I remember this call like it was izolo. So sad we've lost you. Condolences to his family #Gunman pic.twitter.com/aOJojWq7cTChristopher Khubeka will be remembered and celebrated for his contribution in the entertainment industry. #GunmaneNCA