CAPE TOWN The Springboks started their 2017 season with a morale-boosting 37-14 win over tourists France in the first Test at Loftus Versfeld, Pretoria, on Saturday evening.After a 16-7 halftime lead, the Boks weathered France s early second-half onslaught and then responded with three unanswered tries which took the game well beyond the visitors, who at one stage managed to claw their way into the picture at 16-14.READ: Boks set for 2017 in all-new Asics jerseyThe Boks produced a strong first-half performance which was mainly as a result of good decision making when opportunities beckoned. Despite enjoying both territorial and possession advantage the Boks were forced to settle for a one-all first-half try count. Congratulations to the #Springboks, beating France 37-14 in @CastleLagerSA incoming series. Pointing towards good times to come? @MTNza pic.twitter.com/t10f7jOOGa France had a chance to draw first blood when their flyhalf Jules Plisson lined up a long-range penalty in the fourth minute. However, he pushed his attempt across the face of the goals.In the ensuing play, the Boks produced a series of powerful forward-driven surges upfield with hooker Malcolm Marx and loosie Oupa Mohoje leading the charge. One of the promising penetrative sorties brought out the best of the French defence who managed to push Bok right wing Raymond Rhule into touch less than five metres from the try line.The Boks made their pressure count when New Zealand referee Glen Jackson penalised the French twice in quick succession and flyhalf Elton Jantjies was on target each time with close-in attempts to secure a 6-0 lead after 13 minutes play.France finally struck a measure of cohesion midway through the half as they ran the ball through several phases from a counter-attack launched deep inside their own half. They were stopped a few metres from the try line as the Boks offered a desperate defence to rescue the threatening situation.Just ahead of the half-hour mark, Bok Siya Kolisi made a strong run downfield inside the opposition half where the French defence was caught napping. However, they scrambled well enough to avert further danger, and in the process won a penalty which offered temporary relief.Next, it was the turn of Bok debutant Andries Coetzee to show his hand and after a scything run from 40m out, the ball was relayed to centre Jesse Kriel who ran clear of the cover defence to score the game s opening try in the 32nd minute. Jantjies goaled the conversion for a 13-0 lead.France bounced back in style when their rightwing Yoann Huget ran strongly in the wide channel and his chip ahead found the Bok defence in disarray and midfielder Henry Chavancy gathered smartly to snatch his side s first try, four minutes ahead of the halftime break. Plisson landed the conversion to reduce the deficit (13-7).On the stroke of halftime, Jantjies was on target with a fourth effort from the kicking tee (16-7).France grabbed the initiative when second-half play commenced and managed to take play up to the Boks try line. They surrendered the advantage following a scrum penalty moments later and the Boks responded with an enterprising multi-phase play which the French defence did well to contain.Play became scrappy as handling errors crept into the game and both sides saw a number of movements break down just when it looked like they were ready to grab the ascendancy.In the 54th minute, France made the breakthrough they had threatened earlier and substitute Baptiste Serin rounded off with a decisive dummy on the fringe of the try line before diving over. Plisson conversion brought France within two points of the Boks tally (16-14).This was the cue for the Boks to mount a matchwinning effort and put the final result beyond doubt, and they did just that in emphatic fashion with a 14-point burst on the hour. Junior Boks give the @Springboks a round of applause after their victory against France from Tbilisi pic.twitter.com/I69l0guzui First, leftwing Courtnall Skosan was prevented from scoring when he was held without the ball in the in-goal area after a strong run by Bok skipper Warren Whiteley. The referee awarded a penalty try, as well as a yellow card for fullback Brice Dulin of France.Moments later, a Bok training ground move from the back of a line-out left the 14-man French defence exposed and scrumhalf ran in virtually unchallenged for yet another try. Jantjies converted each time to open up a commanding 30-14 lead.There was more woe for France as the Boks again exploited the one-man advantage in the 67th minute when centre Jan Serfontein was next in after good work by Coetzee and substitute Francois Hougaard. Jantjies added two more points (37-14).Right at the end, France tried hard to cross the opposition try line but the Boks stood firm and held out for a penalty which finally sounded the death knell for Yoann Maestri s troops.Scorers: South Africa 37 (16): Tries: Jesse Kriel, penalty try, Ross Cronje, Jan Serfontein. Conversions: Elton Jantjies (3). Penalties: Elton Jantjies (3) France 14 (7): Tries: Henry Chavancy, Baptiste Serin. Conversions: Jules Plisson (2).African News Agency