DURBAN The Democratic Alliance on Saturday welcomed the South African Human Rights Commission s (SAHRC) statement that the report on KwaZulu-Natal s oncology crisis had been completed and would soon be published. According to SAHRC chairperson Bongani Majola, the commission will now follow its own internal procedures, which include publishing the report on its website and issuing a media statement in this regard, DA MPL Iman Keeka said.READ: Last cancer doctor quits in DurbanThe SAHRC had also advised that the report had already been sent to the respondents as well as to the speakers of the national and provincial parliaments, who had not yet acknowledged receipt. The report has confirmed what the DA has been saying all along, namely that equipment vital for screening and treatment is either broken or non-existent, that there is a shortage of staff, and that there is a massive backlog which is resulting in curable cancers rapidly becoming incurable, Keeka said. We express our gratitude to the SAHRC for being one of the few remaining Chapter 9 institutions seemingly not under state capture. Our country is currently treading a fine line in its first attempt at democracy and we are in a race against time to ensure that it succeeds. The DA remains committed to this project, Keeka said.In a statement issued on Thursday, the SAHRC said a complaint received in February 2016 had raised a number of problems in the provision of healthcare services to cancer patients in KwaZulu-Natal. The complainant alleged that there were insufficient radiotherapy treatment devices and facilities in the province of KwaZulu-Natal, which had a negative impact on the treatment of patients living with cancer in the province. The radiotherapy machines used for radiotherapy treatment at Addington Hospital were not working. This, therefore, resulted in delays in the treatment of oncology patients, which the complainant attributed to the shortage of functional health technologies. The complainant further alleged that the department of health in KwaZulu-Natal was failing to provide oncology patients with adequate healthcare services, the SAHRC said. The extensive investigation initiated by the commission found that the respondents, being Addington Hospital, Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital (IALC Hospital), the department of health KwaZulu-Natal, and the MEC for health in the province, have violated the rights of oncology patients at the Addington and IALC hospitals to have access to healthcare services as a result of their failure to comply with applicable norms and standards set out in legislation and policies. The commission s binding recommendations -- in terms of section 13 (1) (a) (i) of the SAHRC Act -- are that the respondents are required immediately to take steps to repair and monitor all the health technology machines regardless of contractual disputes yet to be finalised through the courts; that a management plan be adopted to deal with the backlog through, among others, entering into interim public/private partnership arrangements with private oncologists, medical officers, radiotherapists, and oncology nurses; and that an interim referral management plan be developed to facilitate the referral of patients to private service providers for screening, diagnosis, and treatment of cancer. The respondents are required to report to the commission within 10 days of receipt of the report into its investigation, the SAHRC statement said.African News Agency