JOHANNESBURG - After a dismally poor Premiership season by their standards, Orlando Pirates will be under pressure to perform in the Nedbank Cup final, in which they face SuperSport United at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban on Saturday, with the winner qualifying for the 2017/2018 Confederation of African Football (CAF) Confederation Cup.Three days to go!!! @OfficialPSL #NedbankCup2017Final pic.twitter.com/XaXYp33kOwThe final represents the last chance Pirates have to qualify for the elite continental competition, which features teams who have either qualified through domestic top-tier leagues or by winning domestic cup competitions. Pirates finished in a lowly 11th out of 16 teams in the ABSA Premiership.READ: Pirates aim to redeem themselves against SuperSportThe clash is a repeat of the 2016 final, which SuperSport won 3-2, but the Buccaneers know that Saturday s showpiece is an opportunity for redemption, especially from the loyal but frustrated fans perspective.Orlando Pirates stars Oupa Manyisa, Dove Wome, Marc van Heerden and Abbubaker Mobara appeared at a press conference on Tuesday to talk about their prospects and what it means to them.Mobara: "We are not afraid, we are ready. And we believe in ourselves to do well"Midfielder Manyisa said: We haven t played (a competitive match) for a month but the focus is still there. We have been working hard and we want to do well.Manyisa: "We know what we have to do on Saturday. Now it's about working hard & getting it done"READ: SuperSport United hammers Orlando Pirates 6-1, coach quits It means a lot to the fans when we win, but this one will mean even more for everyone, because of the season we ve had. With everything that has happened, the Nedbank Cup will give us an opportunity to play in CAF competition once more. We are professionals and we are focused on doing the job. Midfielder Dove Wome was in defiant mood: It won t be easy for SuperSport United, because we ll be ready for the fight. I have absolutely no regrets about joining his club, regardless of the season we ve had. When I was with SuperSport United (in the 2016 Nedbank Cup final) we told ourselves to fight and play as a team, and that s how we beat Pirates last season. This time around, we will play for each other and we want to fight for the club, they will not have it easy. Left back Marc Van Heerden was equally confident: We ve been training and playing in games, so match fitness is not a worry. We ve been energised by the break. It has been a good time to re-focus. On the day, the team that is hungrier will win the Cup. We are motivated to win, so we can redeem our season. Defender/midfielder Abbubaker Mobara added: We didn t have a good season and we see this cup as an opportunity to redeem ourselves. The spirit is positive and the attitude at training is good; we are all hungry to do well. We had a bad season and they might be fearing us because they think we will come out with a bang and that s exactly what we ll do. African News Agency