FAIAL - Christiaan Greyling, from the Jeep Team SA, won the extreme Faial Coast to Coast 47km Ultra Trail Race, which took place on Faial Island in Azores, an archipelago in the mid-Atlantic, on Saturday, the 27th May, fighting the worst weather conditions imaginable.Portugal s Faial Coast to Coast Ultra Trail traverses some 47km, with a cumulative elevation gain of 2,385 metres, from the village of Ribeirinha, near Boca da Ribeira Port on the east coast at 0m altitude, to Capelinhos on the west coast, at 2,385m altitude.READ: Kenya s Kiptanui, Ethiopia s Imani take top honours in OttawaThe Azores Trail Run takes place in Faial Natural Park, considered a European Destiny of Excellence (EDEN) by the European Commission. The race takes runners on a journey through the history of the geology of the island following the formation of the island, from east to west passing landmarks and geological features, showcasing the volcanic nature of the Azores islands.A large part of the trail takes place in the largest and most remarkable "Graben" of the archipelago, a large section of land that collapsed between two tectonic faults. The trail ends at the biggest volcano on the island, the dormant Capelinhos Volcano. Greyling, who only took the lead in the last 6km of the race, crossed the finish line in first place in a time of 03:54:07. Second place went to island local, D rio Moitoso, in a time of 04:02:36, and third place to Nuno Silva, in a time of 04:04:00. Speaking about the race, Greyling said, This race was significant as it marked my first race as a full-time athlete. It was amazing to run on this land mass caused by the 1957 Volcanic action in the Azores. It looked like Mars, while the rest of the course was lush green. We started off in a group of about 5 athletes leading and holding a comfortable pace on the volcanic line of Faial. At about 9km, local trail champion, D rio Moitoso, made a break and I responded. I kept contact with him until 17km where I stopped at the water point. The race organiser had warned us about the intense winds and rain, but I underestimated the extent - the wind was so extreme it could blow you off your feet!"I saw some runners on hands and knees crawling the 1km of trail on the Caldera s edge (crater edge). In extreme conditions and poor visibility, I lost sight of D rio Moitoso."I gave it everything on the muddy downhills to try to catch up with him, and it took me another 17km before I saw him again on the last climb.I sprinted past him, missing the last waterpoint knowing another stop would lose me the race. I managed to open an 8minute gap on him in the last 7km and finished the 42km in 3h54.07, certainly one of my best trail marathons, especially in these conditions and altitude. Landie Greyling, Christiaan s wife, and a renowned Trail Champion, won the female overall category, an hour ahead of second placed runner, Raquel Andrade. Results - Faial Coast To Coast 47km Men 1. Christiaan Greyling 03:54:07 2. D rio Moitoso 04:02:36 3. Nuno Silva 04:04:00 Women 1. Landie Greyling 04:21:56 2. Raquel Andrade 05:21:59 3. Maria Goul o 05:24:12 eNCA