OTTAWA - The Greek immigrant who created one of the world's most popular and controversial pizzas -- Hawaiian pizza -- in his restaurant in Canada more than 50 years ago, has died. #FoodFact: The Hawaiian pizza was invented in 1962 by Sam Panopoulos, a native of Greece who ran a pizzeria in Canada. Obviously :-) pic.twitter.com/Hpp8mroRk4Sam Panopoulos -- who earned a place in history by putting canned pineapple and ham on a pizza at his Satellite Restaurant in Chatham, Ontario in 1962 -- was 83 and had just celebrated his 50th wedding anniversary with his wife Christina.He died suddenly in the hospital on Thursday, according to his obituary.Panopoulos had operated a string of successful restaurants with his brothers Elias and Nikitas when he came up with his famous invention.Created just for fun, the so-called Hawaiian soon spread around the world. Sam Panopoulos, 83, Canadian inventor of the Hawaiian pizza has died. Our Feb 2017 intvu with him here: https://t.co/o0GCKXevri pic.twitter.com/x07Aa5CZQTLast February, the dish became the target of ridicule by Iceland's president, Guoni Johannesson.Saying he was fundamentally opposed to pineapple on pizza, Johannesson declared that it should be banned.After a public uproar, he clarified that he gladly does not have "the power to make laws which forbid people to put pineapple on their pizza."Defending his creation, Panopoulos told the public broadcaster CBC that "those days when I first came up with it, there was nothing to it... It was just another piece of bread cooking in the oven." Sam Panopoulos created the Hawaiian pizza 55 years ago. But does pineapple really belong on pizza? https://t.co/zE4WH7h1Ay pic.twitter.com/jJxEIKaAiL"Nobody liked it at first," he said. "But after that, they went crazy about it, because (in) those days nobody was mixing sweet and sour and all that. It was plain, plain food."Others soon began experimenting, Panopoulos said, going beyond the traditional pepperoni, bacon and mushroom toppings to include salmon, green peppers, onions or "whatever you wanted."AFP