JOHANNESBURG Visual representations of the words used most often in the ANC s Policy Conference discussion documents or word clouds paint a picture of what lies at the heart of the current deliberations.The ruling party is heading into a policy conference that precedes its December elective conference, and taking centre stage are issues relating to the economy, poverty, Africa, and organisational renewal.A word cloud is a visual representation of the words that are used most often in a document. The more a word is used in a given document, the more visually prominent it appears in a word cloud of that document. Creating word clouds of the ANC s policy documents gives us a glimpse into what it is that really carries weight in those documents.READ: What becomes of the broken-hearted?Economic transformationWhile much has been speculated about proposed radical economic transformation by the ANC, the policy documents themselves state that this should not be done rashly, but through infrastructure spending, expanding the mining value chain, growing the manufacturing sector, and improving agro-processing beneficiation.In the paper on Economic Transformation, the words transformation and employment are used the same number of times (50 each), and are amongst the most prominent in the document. Infrastructure is used 45 times, while investment is used 40 times. ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document Economic Transformation by eNCA.com on Scribd Social transformationWhen it comes to social transformation, housing takes centre stage with the word used 50 times in the relevant discussion document. Settlements are mentioned an additional 44 times, while Development also features prominently with 28 mentions.The words water and infrastructure are also prominent in this paper (used 27 and 21 times respectively), pointing to a realizsation that basic services are key in reaching the common man and woman. ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document Social Transformation by eNCA.com on Scribd International relationsThe International Relations discussion document places Africa front and centre African and African are the two words used most in the document (83 times each), with the word continent used another 34 times, and Africans another 11 times.On the global front, Palestinian is used 9 times, as are military, with BRICS used 8 times. The use of the word War 10 times points to a very pointed picture of the state of the global political landscape at this point in time. ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document: International Relations by eNCA.com on Scribd The big pictureCombining all nine policy documents into one and creating a word cloud based on that shows that the party knows all too well that it is time for renewal, to focus on the poor and ground-level issues, and that the time has come for leaders to be servants of the people.The word poor 115 times. Serve features 43 times, while Africa is used 325 times. The word must features 532 times, will 509 times, and can 164 times, certainly indicative of a marked degree of optimism, even if it is possibly forced optimism. For what it s worth, the word capture appears 8 times.Other frequently-used words that give some clues as to the focus of the papers include: transformation (258 uses), services (219 uses), capacity (145 uses), and change (145 uses). ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document Strategy and Tactics by eNCA.com on Scribd - Christelle du ToiteNCA