Editor's note: This story will be updated every time there are new developments.JOHANNESBURG - Hundreds of taxis are making their way to the SA Taxi Foundation in Midrand, where aggrieved drivers will deliver a memorandum to officials.Gauteng taxi operators affiliated to the South African National Taxi Council embarked on protest action against what they called high minibus taxi purchase costs.Scores of taxis seen making their way closer to the SA Taxi Foundation. This is where they will be handing over their MOD. #TaxiStrike pic.twitter.com/goR3NJNYyLThe protests have led to Gauteng's main route between Johannesburg and Pretoria being blocked. Major routes running through the two cities have also been affected.Gun shots were fired in the air near the Allandale off-ramp in Midrand near the Mall of Africa. Gauteng Metro Police described this as intimidation.Spokesperson Busaphi Nxumalo said police were looking to arrest those who have intimidated motorists, while SAPS spokesperson Kay Makhubela, said police impounded 18 mini buses that were left unattended on the N1 near Allandale.LIVE BLOG: #TaxiStrikeThere were reports of trucks being forcefully taken over by protesting taxi drivers, and used to block the N1.Midrand - #TaxiProtest N1 South, near Allandale Road: Taxi Drivers parked trucks and left with the keys ! pic.twitter.com/gX2iHruLLrSome people were assaulted for trying to ferry stranded commuters to their destinations. eNCA's Khayelihle Khumalo says he witnessed some taxi drivers beating up a man who offered a lift to people.#TaxiStrike HAPPENING NOW [WATCH] taxi's have blocked M1. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/8vtOmqEIv0Centurion - RT @AndileAV @TrafficSA N14 South before Jean Avenue pic.twitter.com/8brZ842LhgIn Tshwane, the metro police "have deployed officers to affected routes." TMPD's Isaac Mahamaba says they are working on clearing blocked roads as the strike is illegal."Our officers have been deployed to various areas to enforce the law," Mahamba said.In the north of the capital, the R80 at the Ruth First and Wonderpark off-ramps are affected. The Daspoort Tunnel has also been blocked. The R21 northbound has been blocked as well as the N1 interchange at Olivenhoutbosch.@trafficSA Cars making U-turn on the M1 back to Centurion John Voster facing the oncoming traffic #TaxiStrike pic.twitter.com/xjslQgg7CHSERVICE UPDATE: Please note that the train service is operating according to schedule. The Gautrain bus service remains suspended.In Johannesburg, the N1 north has been slightly cleared and traffic is flowing at a slow pace, while the N1 south is still blocked. JMPD's Wayne Minnaar has advised motorists to stay away from the roads for the better part of the morning."We have granted permission for the protest in Johannesburg. There are hundreds of taxis making their way to Joburg, the traffic will be slow on major routes," Minnaar said.[WATCH] JMPD spokesperson, Wayne Minnaar, outlines the roads affected by this morning's #TaxiStrike. Courtesy DStv 403. pic.twitter.com/lfKHiDZapHeNCA