JOHANNESBURG Boxing fans in Gauteng are in for a treat on Saturday at Emperors Palace, Kempton Park, where Golden Gloves promoter Rodney Berman will present the Hurtin for Certain bill.The action kicks off starts with a 4-round super middleweight bout between Ricky Tshabalala and Benjamin Nhabe. Tshabalala will be having only his second professional fight but a lot is expected of this former two-time SA amateur champion. He has worked hard for the fight under trainer Colin Nathan.The super middleweight bout for the African Boxing Union (ABU) title between Alfonso Tissen and Lee Dyer is next on the card.Tissen, who recently captured the ABU middleweight title, will be stepping up one weight division in his attempt to take the title from the hard hitting Dyer. Tissen, trained by Gert Strydom, will be mindful of the fact Dyer stopped Giovanni Bushby in capturing the title.Bushy and Tissen fought to a draw two years ago in East London. Tissen, who has shown great improvement since joining Strydom, will try to neutralise Dyer s power punches. Dyer, in turn, will want to start the action early on against Tissen, who is a notoriously slow starter.In an international welterweight bout, South African sensation Thulani Mbenge comes up against Jay Inson from the Philippines.Mbenge comes into this having just captured the SA title from Shaun Ness and will certainly be wanting to make this victory No 11 in the paid ranks. None of his previous 10 opponents have managed to go the distance.Inson, who is ranked No 15 by the WBO will be a true test for Mbenge but it remains to be seen if he will be able to absorb the power punches from Mbenge. A victory for Mbenge will catapult him up the world rankings and promoter Rodney Berman is looking to expose the Eastern Cape-born youngster to the American market.IBO minimumweight world champion Simpiwe Konkco puts his title on the line against Lito Dante who also hails from the Philippines.Konkco, who captured the attention of boxing fans a couple of years ago in a close points loss against then champion Hekkie Budler will need to be at his best against Dante. Dante has never been stopped but it remains to be seen if he will be able to cope with the explosive work rate of Konkco.There is a lot riding on this fight for Konkco who has been promised a unification bout by Berman should he be victorious. Konkco did not share much at the press conference, making it clear that although he respected his opponent, he would leave his talking for the ring come Saturday night.The final bout of the evening sees cruiserweights Johnny Muller and Thabiso Mchunu meeting for the ABU belt over 12 rounds. In many ways, this is a make or break fight for both fighters who need to get their careers back on track.Mchunu is coming off a loss and Muller has lost twice in his last 3 bouts. The well toned Mchunu has promised fans that he will not run out of steam in this fight, clearly stating that he has put in a huge amount of effort into preparing for this fight.Muller, who will have a distinct height and reach advantage, will be wary of the power that Mchunu carries in his punches and will probably box from the outside for the first couple of rounds before trying to mix it with Mchunu. Both camps seemed confident of their chances and this could very well turn out to be the fight of the night.The tournament will be broadcast live on Supersport. African News Agency