JOHANNESBURG - SA midfielder Bongani Zungu last donned national colours 19 months ago, but is back and raring to go against Nigeria, in his team s 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier at Godswill Akpabio International Stadium in Uyo State, Nigeria on Saturday.His last game for Bafana Bafana was in a World Cup qualifier against Angola, in Durban in November 2015.Injury and moving to a new club in Portugal left him on the sidelines but now he is back and eager contribute to Bafana s AFCON campaign.In a recent interview, he spoke of the upcoming fixture against the Eagles and of his time overseas.Regarding SA s chances against Nigeria, who have considerable pedigree in African and global competition, he said: Football is about competition, we have the quality in the team and I believe we stand a good chance to beat them because they haven t been having a good run in recent times. Yes they have individuals who play in top teams abroad but we have more of a team, a bunch of hard-working young boys and we are looking forward to it. On the change in management in the team, with Stuart Baxter being appointed, he said: I guess it s the nature of the game, different coaches and different players, but the objective remains the same.Nice to be back home ---- #motherLand pic.twitter.com/trq3JGTDbf We are all here to do a job and we must do it to the best of our abilities. It doesn t matter who the coach is, as long as we have guys who can work hard and make every training session interesting and we win games. So I am really looking forward to this match. He was optimistic about the period of qualification both for AFCON 2019 and the Russia World Cup 2018, adding: Very important time this but we have the quality in our team, we have the players to do the business and we have the energy to do well. We are playing our own unique football, we have a lot of tactically and technically gifted players who can do damage to any team, but we just have to have the belief, we have to stick to our plan. I have seen since my arrival here in camp that the coach has a plan and that rubs off on the players. If we stick to that plan I think we can beat anyone. I just hope the fans can rally behind the team and give us that oomph to perform, because if our confidence is high, we can make things happen.READ: Thulani Hlatshwayo relishing Bafana captain s armbandReferring to his experience of playing abroad in often-hostile European environments, he believed it was of great benefit to SA-born players, as it toughened them psychologically which in turn would benefit SA s national cause.He said: When you play that side you get to improve as a player, you play in hostile stadiums and that builds character. Also if you look at it, football abroad is a step or two ahead and if we can get more players overseas, it will help South African football tremendously because with the experience we get that side, we will be able to do more for our country. I just hope we can have more numbers and get to bigger clubs, where we will also play Champions League and that will be good for our nation because that s what we need. If you check the likes of Cameroon, Nigeria, Ivory Coast, Ghana they have a lot of players in the highest league abroad and that helps their game, it helps when it comes to competitions. It s a step forward, if we can get there, for most of us.Zungu, 24, hails from Duduza on Gauteng s East Rand and played his junior football for Dynamos from 2010 to 2012, before making his senior club debut for Amatuks (University of Pretoria), for whom he played in their inaugural Premier Soccer League (PSL) season in 2012-2013.CampLife -- pic.twitter.com/xibyp7D8sTAmatuks achieved a top-eight finish in 2013, before Zungu moved to Mamelodi Sundowns, where he won 58 caps in three seasons. Despite missing most of the second half of his last season, Zungu was able to celebrate Sundown s PSL title in May 2016.He then moved to Portugal to play for Vitoria de Guimaraes, who are in the country s Primera Liga (Premier League).Zungu has already experienced and scored in a cup final in his first season at the club the 2017 Taca de Portugal, at the Estadio Nacional in Lisbon at the end of May. Guimaraes lost narrowly 2-1, but Zungu can take pride in his performance.Guimares ended the premier league season in fourth, which means Zungu can look forward to the experience of playing in the Europa League next season, which is the second tier of European international club competition.About the difference in standards between Portugal and SA, he said: It is quicker and players are technically and tactically good. They give the right pass at the right time. The vibe at the stadium is just awesome and it is always full, so with that, you gain your confidence and you get to improve because you play with good players. Zungu has already been linked to several other European clubs after his solid debut season abroad. While he was flattered, he had no immediate plans of a departure.Good to be back in the national colors ----. Awesome training -- pic.twitter.com/QAiffon8xIWhen pressed on his dream destination, in a professional sense, he admitted: I have always wanted to play Champions League. If a team comes with a good offer and they play Champions League, then what more do I want? I have always been a fighter and a winner, so that s where I will go. That s always been my dream and my family will tell you so. Just the other day my brother reminded me that I had said one day I will play in the Europa League. Now that I have achieved that, I want to move up, so I can fulfill my dream of Champions League and that s a personal goal I will work hard to reach. African News Agency