PORT ELIZABETH The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality says that firefighters who worked throughout the night, have made inroads in extinguishing the blaze that engulfed the city.We acknowledge & praise the work of the NMB fire teams, often extending beyond the borders of the Metro for the greater good of the region.On Saturday fires moved through the Van Stadens Gorge area resulting in the closure of the N2.The fires continued to burn and with strong winds making it difficult to get aerial support into the sky.Sadly, a thatch roof home has been lost in Van Stadens. Fire teams are miracle workers to have prevented more damage. #NMBFires pic.twitter.com/qxbXnBevDQWoodridge College and Preparatory School near Port Elizabeth caught fire, resulting in pupils being evacuated. We can confirm that the areas that remain a challenge are Van Stadens Gorge, (wind has subsided, inroads have been made at Woodridge College and the surroundings). Rocklands (fire under control, wind subsided giving firefighters a good opportunity to make progress) areas. The fire and emergency team worked throughout the night, said municipality spokesperson Mthubanzi Mniki.READ: More deaths reported in Knysna, PE firesInspections were taking place at Woodridge College to ascertain the amount of damage the fire caused.Mniki said electricity outages continue in some areas with electricity distribution in two of the city s water pump stations been cut due to fire damages. After an appeal for water tankers to fill fire trucks, people came from far & wide. Overwhelming unity. I believe in South Africa #NMBFires pic.twitter.com/UQrORzPasuA 72-year-old woman died at her farm in Thornhill, west of Port Elizabeth on Saturday while her husband succumbed to his injuries in hospital. The primary objective is to save lives and property, the municipality is encouraged that the objective has been achieved to a certain extent, Mniki further stated. Reports of two people that have lost their lives in the Thornhill area are devastating to our Fire and Emergency team. The municipality sends its deepest condolences to the families. Thankfully, there were no injuries or fatalities, but we extend our deepest sympathies to the Woodridge College family. https://t.co/Ax3YzTqi4APort Elizabeth residents have also been asked to use water sparingly while the fire and emergency team continues to monitor the whole city for any fire that might flare.The municipality has pleaded with residents not to start fires in open areas and restrain from throwing burning cigarette butts away.eNCA