JOHANNESBURG - eNCA has a new Managing Director and Editor-in-Chief.Mapi Mhlangu will take over from Anton Harber on 1 July 2017. Mhlangu joined the channel in 2009 and has served in various capacities in the eMedia Investments organization, most recently as eNCA s News Director. In that position she was principally responsible for all operations, editorial and technical. She brings a wealth of experience at both the coalface and executive management levels of news production. I m honoured to be entrusted with the responsibility of leading this news organisation and its talented employees at this critical time in South Africa and its newsrooms," Mhlangu said on Monday. "There is a pressing need for news media to ensure that citizens are adequately informed, so as to engage the state and to ensure that the benefits of freedom are realised. South African viewers have consistently indicated that eNCA is their trusted source for independent news and analysis which is accurate and unbiased. I look forward to navigating through the challenges ahead with our dynamic team. eNCA thanks Anton Harber for his contribution to the channel and newsroom where he provided mentorship and nurtured news leaders within the organization. Anton Harber says, I hand over the reins with eNCA s audience and advertising revenue strong and growing, and I think this provides a solid foundation for Mapi and the excellent newsroom team to build on. eNCA is a crucial South African institution, one of the cornerstones of independent journalism, and its role is going to be more important than ever in coming months. I am confident that Mapi is well placed to build on this. eMedia Investments Chief Operating Officer Mark Rosin says, With 20 years of news media experience and almost a decade at eNCA, we have full confidence that eNCA will continue to thrive under Mapi s editorial leadership. In 2015, we spoke about the ongoing transformation of eNCA and its newsroom and Mapi s appointment is testimony to that intention. eNCA will continue to provide journalism that is fair and free of favour, broadcasting the quality news programming which has made it the most watched 24 hour news channel in South Africa.