JOHANNESBURG - ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe said on Friday there was Western interference in politics in South Africa.Briefing the media after delivering his report on the party at a closed session at the National Policy Conference, he spoke about regime change. Manthashe says regime change also part of diagnostic organisational report saying elements are visible sighting #Marikana #FMF.#ANCNCP"We angled our debate on the characterisation of regime change, as characterised by developing countries, namely China and Russia. And I want to quote the increasingly widespread Western practice of overthrowing legitimate political authority by provoking internal instability and conflict against governments that are considered inconvenient and insubordinate to their interests, and replacing them with blind-puppet regimes that pander to their interests."That is a reality in South Africa. It's a reality in the world."PLEASE tell me Gwede did NOT say that the workers murdered in Marikana were involved in "regime change"!What's wrong with these people??@eNCA. Tell Mantashe to look no further than his org. Guptas & Zuma's cabal r hastening the regime change.Journalists pressed Mantashe on state capture and the influence of the Gupta family on the government.Mantashe replied that he didn't know what the ANC was expected to do about the Guptas.READ: Jekyll and Hyde: Will the real President Zuma please stand up"Should we deport them? Because if we deport them they won't be here and the problem may be resolved. And I said, 'But a political party can't do that, that's the function of the state.' Should we revoke their citizenship? Again, we can't take that resolution in a policy conference of the ANC. The government and the state must deal with that issue ... "But if you talk about dealing with state capture that's another matter because state capture is something that impacts on the government and directly with the ANC. That we must get a solution that's why on that matter we agreed on the commission of enquiry and our bet is to work on the enquiry to be established sooner."Mantashe's report painted a picture of a divided and weakened organisation. The ANC had been in decline since 2009 and factions were destroying the party, Mantashe said. Failure to reclaim its public image would accelerate the decline.Mantashe reported to the conference that research into the party s decline, in the run-up to the 2016 local government elections, confirmed that less than half of the population was positive about the direction the country was taking. This was fuelled by the high crime rate, corruption and unemployment.The research also found that ANC voters were unhappy with the ANC's candidate selection, the Cabinet reshuffle, the Constitutional Court's decision on Nkandla, the Vuwani protests and the problems at the SABC and SAA, Mantashe said.He said the distrust was worsened by the party itself: "It is our actions as the ANC, leaders in particular, that have an impact on the attitude of voters, so that s why it s our responsibility as a movement to talk about factionalism and the impact on society." eNCA