Editor's note: eNCA is no longer taking the funeral live but will update the story.JOHANNESBURG Actor and musician Dumi Masilela will be laid to rest in Johannesburg on Saturday. We send our deepest condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of Rhythm City Actor Dumi Masilela, who has reportedly passed on. pic.twitter.com/edsg8I9LHuThe funeral service started at 8am at at the Hope Restoration Ministries in Kempton Park. #DumiMasilela Seeing his coffin ushered me into the grim reality that he is no more. I've never before cried for someone I never met.Friends, family and fans say his death in an attempted hijacking has robbed the entertainment industry of a great talent. I didn't know until today that Dumi Masilela was married to Simphiwe Ngema. You can see that real love lived here #RIPDumiMasilela pic.twitter.com/bHBvCPP6MPMasilela played Sfiso on the soapie Rhythm City.He passed away last week, after an attempted hijacking. He was shot in Tembisa and died in hospital.READ: 'Rhythm City' actor Dumi Masilela diesA memorial service was held on Wednesday.Before he became a TV star, Masilela played soccer for SuperSport United. [WATCH] #RIPDumiMasilela: Police spokesperson, Kay Makhubele provides insight on Rhythm City actor #DumiMasilela's death. Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/uTZwu4A9WmThe team's marketing manager, Coltrane Munyai, shared his memories of Masilela's early sporting career. He was a good player. He played for the under 23s and that is where we saw him. He was a very young player. So he didn t play much and, unfortunately, I think in 2008 he was involved in a car accident. That s where his soccer career jeopardised. READ: 'No one prepares you to be a 27-year-old widow': Siphiwe NgemaMunyai said they scouted Dumi when he was at the University of Pretoria. He went through therapy and was in recovery in 2009. In 2010, he was told he can t play football anymore and that s when his acting career started. Honestly, Dumi was a young energetic guy. I was not surprised to see him again entertaining people. I think he was born for that. eNCA