CAPE TOWN The Democratic Alliance will demand an immediate parliamentary inquiry into government s complicity in allowing Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe s wife Grace to flee the country in the dead of night to avoid criminal prosecution , the DA said on Sunday.The inquiry should call on the ministers of police, international relations and co-operation, and defence and military veterans to account for their failures, DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said. It is simply inexplicable how this has happened again. It illustrates how unrepentant the ANC government is and, following its complicity in allowing Sudanese president Omar al Bashir to escape an international arrest warrant, shows that the ANC government will continue to do exactly what it wants to protect their dodgy friends, he said.READ: DA blames SAA flights cancellation on Grace Mugabe assault This government has no more legitimacy in the arena of international diplomacy and displays a total disregard for the rule of law. Indeed, the ANC has turned South Africa into a playground for the political elite and their criminal associates to act with impunity. The DA in parliament would never allow this state of affairs to continue and would demand a thorough inquiry into this latest and predictable failure by the executive. The ANC was content to sell South Africa to the highest bidder, but they must be reminded that parliament is neither captured nor for sale . The ANC can no longer be trusted to govern. South Africans have had enough. This is why the motion to usher in new elections should be supported. We cannot afford another two years of the ANC s disastrous term, Steenhuisen said.According to media reports, Grace Mugabe has left South Africa and has been granted diplomatic immunity following her alleged assault on a South African woman.READ: Police should have ensured Grace court appearance: ministerRobert Mugabe was in South Africa to attend a Southern African Development Community (SADC) summit in Pretoria, but has reportedly left before the summit concludes on Sunday.The department of International Relations and Cooperation confirmed that Mugabe was granted diplomatic immunity. The Minister [Maite Nkoana-Mashabane] considered the communication from the Embassy in accordance with the discretion granted to her by section 7(2) of the Diplomatic Immunities and Privileges Act, the department said in a statement. According to Section 7 (2) of the Act: The Minister may in any particular case if it is not expedient to enter into an agreement as contemplated in subsection (1) and if the conferment of immunities and privileges is in the interest of the Republic, confer such immunities and privileges on a person or organisation as may be specified by notice in the Gazette. African News Agency