LONDON – Chelsea lifted Antonio Conte's spirits ahead of the crucial final days of the transfer window as goals from Cesc Fabregas and Alvaro Morata sealed a comfortable 2-0 victory over woeful Everton on Sunday. Conte has spent the last few weeks grumbling about Chelsea's failure to land his top transfer targets, and with the window closing next week, the Blues boss is hoping to bolster his depleted squad with several signings. Against that troubled backdrop, it was essential Chelsea signed off before the international break with three points to keep in touch with Premier League pace setters Manchester United. READ: Conte fears difficult season in store for Chelsea The champions achieved that aim with ease as Fabregas opened the scoring in the first half at Stamford Bridge before Morata bagged his second goal since his club record £58 million ($74 million) move from Real Madrid. ⚡️ ICYMI... https://t.co/vOgDatq9LO Conte's men have now won two in a row following their shock opening-day defeat against Burnley, but they won't have many less demanding victories than this one against a lethargic Everton side who barely broke sweat. Although Morata scored again, the Spain striker was a diffident figure for long periods and Conte knows Chelsea's hopes of more silverware rest on him being given extra options to juggle the demands of a gruelling season. Everton's first league defeat of the season was a frustrating end to what had been a positive week for Ronald Koeman's men after they drew at Manchester City and qualified for the Europa League group stages. Today three important points at home! Well done @cesc4official and @AlvaroMorata ⚽️⚽️ ! ---- -- #CHEEVE @ChelseaFC pic.twitter.com/y4ndxRbaNl Back from suspension, Fabregas came in for Tiemoue Bakayoko and was immediately in the thick of the action when Everton midfielder Idrissa Gueye escaped with a yellow card after catching the Spaniard with a crude studs-up lunge. Despite Chelsea's commanding position, Conte remained typically hyperactive on the touchline. A calmer head will be required when he returns to the transfer maelstrom. AFP