PARLIAMENT - Zizi Kodwa said that what matters is the outcome, not how members of the ANC voted. He was commenting on the result of the secret vote of no confidence in President Zuma, which failed in Parliament on Monday. Those seeking to unseat Zuma managed to get 177 votes, indicating that numerous members of the ANC voted with the opposition. Nine MP's abstained. Kodwa said that South Africa is a democracy and people have the right to vote as they please. But he indicated that the ANC had always been confident that the vote would not succeed. The UDM UDM leader Bantu Holomisa said he was happy that over 20 members of the ANC voted with the opposition parties. "What it says is that the ANC is no longer in control of everybody in this country... the victory they have had is just a hollow victory." The DA DA leader Mmusi Maimane said "What was encouraging today was that, unlike in previous times, members of the opposition and members of the ANC stood together to say Zuma must go. "It proves the simple point that Zuma has lost confidence in his own caucus. It proves the simple call the fact that he's in fact a dead president and he must resign, he must do the right thing... Today is a pyrrhic victory for the ANC...This elephant called the ANC can be defeated and today was a clear indicator of that." The SACP The SACP's Solly Mapaila said the result was a wake-up call for the ANC. He said alliance partners needed to come together as soon as possible to reflect on Zuma's leadership and to convince the ANC of the necessity for them to recall the president. He said this vote is an important outcome that should actually force the ANC to convene as soon as possible the meeting of the alliance political council so we can reflect on this and prepare for our structures going forward... If they don't do it, it's quite clear that by the time December comes, it will be too late to talk of  any ANC that can lead South African society. Political Commentator Richard Calland Political commentator Richard Calland said the ANC would gain strength from the vote in the short term, but it will only paper over the cracks in the party. He said the organisation was deeply divided, with factions and with deep concerns about President Zuma. Calland said the vote was a win-win for the opposition. "if they'd won, they would have claimed a victory, but... President Zuma has become an electoral asset for the opposition so I think they will be delighted by this result because it keeps their greatest asset in power... On the numbers, at least 29, perhaps 32 ANC MPs today voted with the opposition - we shouldn't lose sight of that." The ANC's Jackson Mthembu Reacting to the result, a smiling Jackson Mthembu said, "We are very happy that we;ve defeated this ploy of the DA to fracture the party." Mthembu said the talk of state capture was a red herring as the ANC was dealing with the issue. "This motion of a judicial commission of enquiry that we have all sought must start with a mater of urgency," he said. eNCA