JOHANNESBURG - One political analyst says procedures not used for many years will be followed in Tuesday's motion of no confidence against President Jacob Zuma. Parliamentary Speaker, Baleka Mbete, has ordered a secret ballot. READ - Mbete approves Zuma no confidence secret ballot According to Karima Brown, "What will happen here is that this vote will be secret and people will have to go the chamber for it and of course the speaker will have to appoint returning officers to look at how that's going to work. So quite a long time ago seeing that we're in 2017 and the last time that secret ballot happened was with the appointment of President Jacob Zuma as the president of SA.” Brown says: “A lot of people are going to watch very closely the mechanics of how it's going to happen in Parliament. But the take away for me is all eyes on the ANC it has to make momentous decisions. It can choose one of two ways to go. It can decide that President Zuma needs to go right now for the ANC to get back on its feet and contest an election in 2019 that it has the slightest hope of winning. Or it can rally behind the president and tell the electorate and voters that it will make its decisions regardless of how the populus feels and of course take the risk that that may further alienate the party come 2019." Democratic Alliance (DA) leader, Mmusi Maimane says there is enough time to prepare for Tuesday's vote of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma. eNCA reporter, Lester Kiewit caught up with Maimane following a media briefing on opposition leaders’ reactions to the decision by Baleka Mbete to allow a secret ballot in the vote. "It's a question of just preparing ballot papers for tomorrow. I think the procedure has been followed before in the election of the president, therefore in the removal of one it's not a new process, it's not a complicated process, there's no need for an extensive briefing. It's laid out in the constitution and given enough time what Parliament ought to be doing is making sure they set up the new ballot boxes, set up the ballots themselves and then let's execute at 2 o' clock in the afternoon,” said Maimane. Analyst Phephelani Dube of the Centre for Constitutional Rights explained the procedures to be used to eNCA. A number of protest actions are planned across the country for Tuesday, most in favour of voting Zuma out. READ - Social media reacts to #SecretBallot determination Future SA has provided details on its protests action in various provinces on Tuesday. Future SA Protest Action by eNCA.com on Scribd On Monday, Speaker of Parliament, Baleka Mbete, announced her decision on the voting mechanism to be used on Tuesday. Statement by the Speaker of the National Assembly on the Appropriate Voting Procedure Regarding the Motion... by eNCA.com on Scribd Some church leaders in KwaZulu-Natal have held a prayer ahead of the motion of no confidence vote against the president. They're accusing civil society of working with the opposition to confuse the nation. The prayer meeting was in support of President Jacob Zuma. According to Bishop Bheki Ngcobo of the National Interfaith Council of South Africa, “This motion will be stillborn and defeated by an overwhelming mandate. This is attempt to gain political power through the back door. This publicity is a huge danger to our democracy and will divide South Africans." The ANC has said it was not surprised by Mbete's announcement. Opposition parties and civil society have welcomed Mbete’s decision. 