*Editor's note: This livestream is now over. Watch the recording above. CAPE TOWN – Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) spokesperson, Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan, and Gordhan's former deputy Mcebisi Jonas are amongst the panellists at The Gathering event at the Cape Town International Convention Centre. Black First Land First (BLF) members and journalists were involved in yet another confrontation on Thursday morning at the event in Cape Town. BLF leader Andile Mngxitama has made an appearance at the #NandosDMGathering in Cape Town. Stopped by security. @News24 pic.twitter.com/3U58KUPw0m Members of the SAPS now outside the event as well. BLF's attempts to enter have fizzled out, still demanding money back, however. @News24 The Gathering is a full day EFF at The Gathinevent which looks at issues facing the South African media. Ndlozi will be on a panel discussing the "Hijacking Media for Political Gain" alongside DA national spokesperson Phumzile van Damme and ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu. Last week, Black First Land Fist (BLF) leader, Andile Mngxitama clashed with journalists at another media event. Gordhan and Jonas, who were fired by President Jacob Zuma in March, have been outspoken against state capture. The pair will be on a panel discussing “Joining the dots, the media and the dirty tricks”. #NandosDMGathering The BLF says that they bought tickets to the event so that they can engage in the discussion CA pic.twitter.com/cNyuSdnwyC It comes as the South African National Editors Forum (Sanef), amaBhungane managing partner Sam Sole and HuffPost SA editor-at-large Ferial Haffajee on Tuesday launched an urgent application in the North Gauteng High Court to convict Mngxitama for contempt of court. In court papers, they argue that BLF and Mngxitama are in contempt of a court order handed down on July 7 that "Mngxitama is to be arrested and imprisoned for a period of three months (90 days) immediately upon the granting of this order, such order for arrest and imprisonment being suspended indefinitely". They further ask the court to fine BLF and Mngxitama R100,000. This follows the disruption of an amaBhungane speaking event about the Gupta leaks in Johannesburg by Mngxitama and BLF. One journalist was allegedly assaulted. eNCA