JOHANNESBURG - The Western Cape Department of Agriculture is investigating possible incidences of Highly Pathogenic Avian influenza (HPAI), type H5N8, in two ostrich farms in the Heidelberg area.Avian influenza is a viral respiratory disease of birds believed to be transmitted by wild migratory birds.In Southern Africa, the H5N8 strain of the disease also affected the poultry industry in Zimbabwe, where thousands of commercial birds have died or had to be culled.Investigations on the farms are in progress and both farms have been placed under quarantine. Quarantine measures entail no movement of birds to and from the affected properties will be allowed. People and vehicles will have to adhere to strict hygiene measures. WATCH: What is bird flu and can you get it?Thirteen outbreaks have occurred in South Africa since June this year, thus far in Mpumalanga and Gauteng.The outbreaks involved seven commercial chicken farms, two groups of backyard chickens, three sets of wild birds and one group of domestic geese.This strain of the virus has so far shown no sign of being infectious to people. Constant monitoring of exposed people in South Africa has supported this.Ostrich and chicken meat on sale in retail outlets is safe for human consumption.[WATCH] South African Poultry Association CEO, Kevin Lovell unpacks the risk of #BirdFlu in the country. Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/3Y3jF1mhwnAvian Influenza is primarily spread by direct contact between healthy and infected birds, or through indirect contact with contaminated equipment or other materials.The virus is present in the faeces of infected birds and in discharges from their noses, mouth and eyes. The virus can spread into domestic flocks kept outdoors through faecal contamination from wild birds, whereas infection among indoor flocks is spread via airborne discharges and faeces. There is currently no preventive vaccine or treatment for HPAI H5N8.READ: South African farmers urged to check poultry for bird fluCurrent practice in most regions of the world requires the culling of infected birds.There is no benefit to be gained in attempting to control the virus in wild birds through culling or habitat destruction. General recommendations: It is very important to report sick or dead birds - both wild birds and poultry - to local authorities (veterinary services, public health officials, community leaders etc.) Farmers and poultry producers should step up their biosecurity measures in order to prevent potential virus introduction from wild birds or their faeces; It is important to keep poultry and other animals away from wild birds and their body fluids, through screens, fencing or nets; Commercial poultry operations and backyard poultry owners should avoid the introduction of the virus through contaminated clothes, footwear, vehicles or equipment used in waterfowl hunting.Details of local state veterinarians and more recommendations can be found on the Western Cape governmernt website. eNCA