SPONSORED: Since 2011, Shell South Africa, in partnership with The Maths Centre, has offered a flagship educational initiative focused on improving Mathematics skills at selected schools. The Rally to Numeracy programme is aimed at helping educators to enhance their understanding and teaching of the country’s Maths syllabus, which will, in turn, result in improved numeracy levels in the pupils they teach. Leeu-Gamke Primary School, is one of 50 primary schools from disadvantaged areas across South Africa that have benefited from this Maths programme in the past six years. The Leeu-Gamke Primary School is situated in a small town in the Western Cape Province – the only primary school in an area of 4000 people. Transformation is a business imperative for Shell which is seen as key to addressing the social inequality that exists in South Africa and for this reason, it sits at the heart of its business with an intent to achieve the true spirit of Transformation. Ntobeko Mogadime, Social Investment Manager at Shell South Africa, says, “Rally to Numeracy is one of Shell’s transformation initiatives aimed at powering South Africa’s progress. For Shell, transformation is all about empowering the individual so that communities can thrive and build a prosperous nation for us all. Through giving these educators the tools they need to teach effectively, we ensure more learners achieve their full potential and thus help fuel a nation of equal opportunity. This is why communities like Leeu-Gamke Primary School are central to Shell’s transformation vision, both for our company and our country.” Letitia Solomons, a Maths teacher at Leeu-Gamke Primary School, says, “The Rally to Numeracy programme has brought positive change here at our primary school. We feel more confident in teaching Mathematics because we are now better equipped with skills to offer the subject at a world-class level.” “The Maths Centre facilitators are very supportive and always here to provide guidance whenever needed. Now learners are able to play with maths apparatus and experience some of the things the teachers are talking about, which makes the subject more enjoyable.” Mikaela Thomas is a Grade 8 learner who struggled with Mathematics in the past, just managing to obtain a mark of 50% in 2016. After the start of this year’s Rally to Numeracy programme, however, she achieved an impressive 90% in all her subjects in the first term of 2017, including Maths. Mikaela says, “Mathematics used to be a scary subject for me, but thanks to the support from the Shell Rally to Numeracy programme, I’ve benefited from my experience at the Maths Hub, which really helped me to understand Maths and enabled me to improve my marks overall.” Ntobeko Mogadime concludes, “Shell South Africa is committed to transformation through educational support, partnerships and development. Rally to Numeracy empowers the Leeu Gamke learners and teachers to pass on the torch of learning, ultimately making a practical difference to their families, communites and country.” Shell’s progressive transformation initiatives have been instrumental in the group achieving its level 1 BEE score but more importantly demonstrates true commitment to powering the progress of South Africans through investment in education, skills development and by creating opportunities for previously disadvantaged individuals throughout the groups value chain. For more information, visit: www.shell.co.za/stationtonation