• Editor’s note: This livestream has ended. Watch the recorded livestream above or view the minister's entire statement at the end of the article. JOHANNESBURG - Many social media users are questioning whether Deputy Higher Education Minister Mduduzi Manana is receiving preferential treatment. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula gave an update on the case on Thursday afternoon. He said Deputy Higher Education Minister, Mduduzi Manana, would not be handled with kid gloves, and he disagreed that the matter was not treated with urgency. He said that Manana has already admitted to the accusations, which made it easier to prosecute, but also meant that police should not rush things, but rather should complete a thorough investigation. Mbalula said Manana, should have known better. "We are saying the case in point against the Minister it is very disappointing. "We expect individuals like him  to act as ambassadors in fighting violence against women but nonetheless everyone is presumed innocent until proven otherwise and nobody is above the law.That is guaranteed in our jurisprudence. " i can assure you that Manana will not be treated with kid gloves. He would face the wrath of the law in relation to the reported crimes of which today he appeared in court." Manana is accused of assaulting a group of women outside a Johannesburg club in the early hours of Sunday morning. READ: Manana due in court soon: reports Despite admitting to the incident, no apparent action has been taken against Manana. There's been public outrage since it emerged that Manana and his friends attacked the women, with many calling for his immediate arrest. Mbalula spoke strongly about the scourge of women abuse. He said, "Unwanted touching is potential rape," and police must not second guess victims but must open cases automatically, and let the courts decide whether the cases should be closed. He said "the police force that I need in South Africa must do things right." He queried how one holds police stations accountable if they don't follow procedure. As we undertake the case against gender violence we say our police stations must become the front line," Mbalula said. Minister Fikile Mbalula's statement on the issue of crimes against women during women's month, 10 August, 2017 eNCA