BRITS, North West - ANC presidential hopeful and NEC member, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, was forced to leave Marikana on Tuesday as she kicked off her presidential campaign in the North West province.She had earlier met with officials in Brits. Attempting to capitalise on Women s Month, while at the same time espousing a radical economic transformation agenda, Dlamini-Zuma said, As we do this radical economic transformation, we should no leave no women behind, for a number of reasons."One it is their right to participate, and two, they are the majority. It means if we leave them out we are leaving more than half the talent of this country. Three, we know that when women have money they first look at the home. Dlamini-Zuma intended to to lay a wreath in Marikana at the koppie where 34 miners were gunned down in 2012, but some residents want nothing to do with the African National Congress.The community says the ANC has done nothing to ensure the correct people are held to account for the massacre. They said in the last five years, Dlamini Zuma and the ANC have never set foot on the koppie. A Miner, Xolani Nzuza, said, It shows that they re disrespectful, because it s been 5 years after the people died, they ve never been here. There was a commemoration last week and there s nothing they did."So it shows that they re only using Marikana to canvass for the upcoming elections. They come here because they want to be voted in. There was a Farlam commission of inquiry and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma never set foot there even just to sit and listen .Mining union Amcu told Dlamini-Zuma to leave and accused her of disrespecting miners because they weren't informed of her visit.Prayers for NDZ #NDZNW pic.twitter.com/p31M8hPPLp A local activist, Napoleon, said that Dlamini-Zuma had done nothing for the AU and although she was officially endorsed as their preferred candidate by the Mogale community, Marikana residents are still adamant that they don't want any ANC representatives in the area until their demands are met. eNCA