CAPE TOWN – The Hawks have confirmed that they are investigating certain aspects of the Gupta emails. Hawks confirms to Parly Committees they are investigating certain aspects of Gupta emails. "We can't arrest before we investigate." Yolisa Makata, head of the Hawks, told MPs in Parliament on Wednesday: "We have a lot of them that we are investigating .We have teams and a team from the NPA [National Prosecuting Authority] that is supporting us in the investigation." In June, media began reporting on more than 100,000 documents and emails leaked from inside the business empire of the Gupta family, which is close to President Jacob Zuma. The Guptas have said the leaks are fake and have denied wrong-doing. However, the Hawks on Wednesday told Parliament that they are investigating aspects of those emails. The Hawks also confirmed to DA MP David Maynier that the case he opened against the Guptas for the lavish wedding they hosted at the Sun City resort was being investigated. The Hawks confirm they are now investigating the charges laid by myself against the Guptas relating to the family wedding in Sun City! ANCP MP Derek Hanekom asked in the National Assembly whether the Hawks had ever been instructed to pursue certain cases, drop certain cases or simply not to investigate. " And I raise this in the context of the Pravin Gordhan case where the Hawks dropped the investigation but there certainly seemed to be capacity at that time to pursue vigorously a case which was subsequently dropped, which seems to be, at best, without substance but probably even a frivolous case. But there seemed to be a lot of determination to pursue that case, there was the will to pursue it, there seemed to be capacity to pursue it  ... "So I would really like an answer from them, whether they really are pursuing cases like this without fear or favour or is there a fear factor? Are there instructions being given to them or are there not?” Makata responded that they were not instructed by anyone to investigate certain cases. "We are investigating all the cases that have been referred to, as in the state of capture matters, on these emails. No one has been instructing whether to investigate or not to investigate." Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the Hawks informed that they did not clear the president’s son, Duduzane Zuma and the Guptas of state capture allegations. The elite crime fighting unit said the president’s son must provide proof of his claims after he said the Hawks found no evidence of wrongdoing against him or the Guptas. He made the claims in an open letter to former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. Zuma accuses Gordhan of unfairly targeting him and his business partners. eNCA