 Editors Note: This live stream has ended. You can watch a recording above.JOHANNESBURG - Business Leadership South Africa (BLSA) launched a so-called Contract with South Africa' in Alexandra, Johannesburg on Wednesday.The contract marks its commitment to job creation, economic growth and transformation.In a keynote speech BLSA CEO Bonang Mohale began a fightback against the deceitful #WMC campaign, with one clear message: #BusinessBelieves in South Africa.He said BLSA members are committed to economic transformation, so that the country works for everyone, summing up his organisation s values in an historic six-point Contract with South Africa which includes a focus on job creation, inclusive economic growth, empowering black business and crushing corruption.Mohale said: Business Believes in South Africa. South Africa s future and our future as businesses are inseparable. We want the transformation so many in this country need so desperately. We share the values set out in its constitution. And we say humbly: we want to play our part in ensuring that South Africa works for everyone. He went on: We are fighting back against the falsehoods of the White Monopoly Capital campaign and we are asserting business as a positive force in the life of this country. He argued: Too many people are still living low quality lives denied the fair chance that Madiba demanded on their behalf. Too often the dream of an equal South Africa has been betrayed. Our society continues to be ravaged by unemployment, poverty, nepotism and corruption. Mohale called on all political parties and civil society to make inclusive economic growth their priority, saying: Because business believes when the economy is strong, South Africa is strong. Bonang Mohale and Nicky Newton-King, CEO of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE), signed the contract (see below) on behalf of the BLSA Board and Council.Mohale also said: Corruption and state capture are the cancers eating away at this society. We cannot create the conditions for inclusive growth in the face of state capture and corruption. Everyone who cares about this country must cry, Not in my name! wherever they see evidence of corruption, whether in the public or private sector. He accepted there were areas where business needed to clean house committing to and signing an Integrity Pledge, where BLSA members have zero tolerance of corruption but pointed out the bigger problem was in Government: We cannot grow our economy when these are the cancers eating away at our country. They must be rooted out and crushed. To create the policy environment necessary for favourable conditions for the economy to grow and succeed, we need to see our commitment matched by government and labour, and BLSA will work with these stakeholders to map out a clear path to prioritise job creation and inclusive economic growth. Only by upholding this contract that we have made today, will we ensure that the South Africa of Nelson Mandela s dream where everyone prospers - will become a reality, concluded Mohale. eNCA