JOHANNESBURG - African National Congress Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa hinted that the Guptas must pay back the money during the OR Tambo Memorial Lecture in Soweto.#Ramaphosa: If money has gone to certain families [see #Guptas], we must go to those ppl and say we want our money back."#Ramaphosa my president" rings out. Slight smile on his face as he claps along to the song. pic.twitter.com/KLTsVegmspIn a thinly-veiled reference to the family that's implicated in allegations of state capture, Ramaphosa says the party must deal with this and with corruption.#Ramaphosa: As we confront challenges of division, factionalism, org decline, corruption, #statecapture, we must follow his lead to rebuild.Speaking at the OR Tambo Memorial Lecture in Braamfischerville, Soweto he said, If state capture holds our economy back, we must solve the problem of state capture. If there are certain individuals that are robbing the people of our country of the money that should go to them, we are the ones who must solve it. #Ramaphosa: Anything that holds our economy back we must solve, address and attend to. We must solve problem of corruption, #statecapture. If the money of our country is going to certain families, we must go back and say we want our money because that money is supposed to serve the people of our country. WATCH: Together we are stronger, says RamaphosaThe Deputy President also wants the ANC to emerge from its December elective conference with leadership that s ready to rebuild the party.#Ramaphosa: Beyond December, we must work harder, build our branches and reclaim Johannesburg from those [DA] who are messing with us.Ramaphosa believes, to turn the economic and unemployment situation around, there has to be policy implementation. Beyond December when we have elected a leadership that will take us forward, we want those leaders, comrades, to be armed with the best policies that the ANC has ever come up with. We want those leaders, as soon as they re elected, to get out of the starting blocks, to implement the policies of the ANC , Ramaphosa said.#Ramaphosa leaves the stage for a meet-and-greet with branch members. pic.twitter.com/y2veXzZf1NeNCA