CAPE TOWN - The sale of assets by the controversial Gupta family in what opposition MPs described as a bid to skip the country does not mean they’ll escape the long arm of the law should allegations of state capture be proven, deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa said on Wednesday. “In relation to the matter you raised that assets are being sold…clearly everything that is happening should not be able to escape the scrutiny of a commission that will be set up,” Ramaphosa said as he was grilled by MPs in the National Assembly. “I think what is clear is that this matter is not going to be left and swept under the carpet…this is going to be dealt with in one shape or another.” The deputy president denied any knowledge of the Guptas, who are at the centre of state capture allegations, including alleged influence on Eskom. “Any knowledge that I have about the alleged influence of a certain family at Eskom has been obtained from published reports on the matter. "This includes the Public Protector’s state of capture report, as well as several media articles produced by investigative journalists,” said Ramaphosa. It emerged this week that the Guptas were selling Tegeta Exploration and Resources to a company in Switzerland for close to R3-billion. Tegeta has a lucrative coal supply contract with Eskom. They were also disposing of their media organisations – The New Age newspaper and the ANN7 television station for a combined R450-million. Ramaphosa said he was “sure” Zuma would establish a judicial commission of inquiry into state capture soon, pleading with MPs to give the president the time and space to do so. He denied Zuma and his government was protecting the Indian family. “Nobody, no family is above the law, so even in this case…whoever is found to have committed any misdemeanour should and will be dealt with, so I want to explode the myth in your mind that some people enjoy the protection of the State and if that was so then we are no longer a State governed by the rule of law.” Ramaphosa said there was no persecution of rogue African National Congress MPs (ANC) who have openly defied Zuma. MPs grilled Ramaphosa on disciplinary action to be taken against ruling party parliamentarians who voted in favour of a motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma. “As far as I’m concerned there’s no witch-hunt in the African National Congress,” said Ramaphosa. “The ANC has accepted that the vote has happened as it did happen and clearly like any other political party it has its own internal processes…that must be respected, just as we respect the internal processes in other parties.” The ANC has announced it would be taking disciplinary action against MPs who publicly stated they would vote in favour of the opposition motion. Makhosi Khoza, an outspoken critic of Zuma, was recently removed from her position as chairperson of Parliament’s portfolio committee on public service and administration. Zuma has also mooted the removal of Derek Hanekom, one of the ministers he fired in his march cabinet reshuffle, as chairman of the ANC’s disciplinary committee. African News Agency