JOHANNESBURG - Experienced prop Beast Mtawarira, scrumhalf Cobus Reinach and promising utility back Curwin Bosch are part of a large contingent Sharks players included in the extended Springbok squad for their second training camp, from April 2 to 4in Stellenbosch.The Durban-based players were not considered for the first training camp, held last month in Johannesburg, because of overseas travel commitments at the start of the Super Rugby competition.READ: Springbok international Reinach signs for NorthamptonThe second of three training camps which are part of the Springboks preparation plans for the forthcoming international season will take place at the Stellenbosch Academy of Sport. South Africa will host France in a three-match Castle Lager Incoming Series in June, before the Rugby Championship gets underway in August.The Springbok selectors invited a group of 13 Sharks players, 10 each from the Lions and Stormers as well as eight Cheetahs players to the three-day camp.There are no players from the Bulls or the Southern Kings in the latest training group as these two franchises are in action abroad.READ: Monster Bosch penalty rescues sluggish SharksAs with the first camp, there are also no overseas-based players included amongst the squad list of 41 players, adhering to Regulation 9 of World Rugby. Lock Franco Mostert is not available for this camp as his wife is due to give birth to their first child.Injured Springboks Pat Lambie, Uzair Cassiem and Ruan Combrinck have been invited to the camp, but injured players such as Damian de Allende and Jean-Luc du Plessis (both Stormers), who made the trip to the previous camp in Johannesburg, are not required to do so again.Allister Coetzee, Springbok coach, said he and his coaching staff are looking forward to continue their preparation work with the extended training squad. The first camp was very successful and we managed to cover a lot of our planning and training plans with the group that assembled in Johannesburg. We aim to do the same in Stellenbosch, said Coetzee. This group has a different look to it because of the addition of the Sharks players, while we are not able to call up players from the Bulls and the Southern Kings because they will be abroad when the camp takes place. During their three day stay in Stellenbosch, the group will undergo medical and conditioning assessments, attend gym and undertake a couple of field training sessions.Name/Position/Franchise: 1. Ruan Ackermann Loose forward Lions2. Lukhanyo Am Centre Sharks3. Clayton Blommetjies Fullback Cheetahs4. Curwin Bosch Flyhalf/Fullback Sharks5. Ruan Botha Lock Sharks6. Uzair Cassiem Flank Cheetahs7. Andries Coetzee Fullback Lions8. Ruan Combrinck Wing Lions9. Ruan Dreyer Prop Lions10. Jean-Luc du Preez Flank Sharks11. Pieter-Steph du Toit Lock Stormers12. Eben Etzebeth Lock Stormers13. Rohan Janse van Rensburg Centre Lions14. Elton Jantjies Flyhalf Lions15. Siya Kolisi Flank Stormers16. Jaco Kriel Flank Lions17. Pat Lambie Flyhalf Sharks18. Dillyn Leyds Wing Stormers19. Wilco Louw Prop Stormers20. Frans Malherbe Prop Stormers21. Lionel Mapoe Centre Lions22. Malcolm Marx Hooker Lions23. Bongi Mbonambi Hooker Stormers24. Oupa Mohoje Flank Cheetahs25. Beast Mtawarira Prop Sharks26. Lubabalo Mtembu No 8 Sharks27. Lwazi Mvovo Wing Sharks28. Ox Nche Prop Cheetahs29. Coenie Oosthuizen Prop Sharks30. Etienne Oosthuizen Lock Sharks31. Chiliboy Ralepelle Hooker Sharks32. Cobus Reinach Scrumhalf Sharks33. Raymond Rhule Wing Cheetahs34. Seabelo Senatla Wing Stormers35. Kobus van Wyk Wing Sharks36. Jano Vermaak Scrumhalf Stormers37. Francois Venter Centre Cheetahs38. Shaun Venter Scrumhalf Cheetahs39. EW Viljoen Centre Stormers40. Warren Whiteley No 8 Lions41. Fred Zeilinga Flyhalf Cheetahs African News Agency