DURBAN Sibongile Mbambo and Phumlani Mbongazi at the centre of the case in which Mbambo s one-month-old baby was reportedly kidnapped and the subject of a massive manhunt at the weekend entered the dock at the Durban Magistrate s Courts on Monday with their heads hung low and Mbambo with a shawl covering her face.This was the first appearance for the pair, both suspects in the abduction of baby Siwaphiwe. Both were remanded and are to appear again on Wednesday. A third female suspect is yet to appear as her details had not been placed on the court roll.While dozens of journalists clamoured for photos, the pair did not make eye contact.UPDATE: Baby Siwaphiwe's mom in courtThe magistrate said that the remand was needed in order to extract DNA samples and to finalise charges.He also said that Mbambo needed to make alternative living arrangements should she apply for bail.Mbambo at first indicated she did have Legal Aid representation, but could not provide her lawyer s full details.The little girl was reported abducted in an alleged hijacking attempt in Durban on Friday afternoon. Mbambo said two men had forced her and her eight-year-old son out of the vehicle and sped off with the child.READ: Hijacked Baby Siwaphiwe's mother arrestedHundreds of police, emergency services and volunteers joined the search on Saturday, but to no avail. Mbambo s vehicle was found abandoned, but the baby seat and baby apparel had been taken. This, and other inconsistencies in Mbambo s statements, raised suspicions amongst police investigators.The child was found unharmed at Marianhill Toll Plaza at midnight on Saturday after police set up a roadblock due to information gathering. Information generated from the interviews became critical in the setting up of a roadblock in Marianhill in the early hours of this morning, police said in a statement on Sunday. A car was stopped by the police wherein a man, a woman and the baby in question was found with the baby unharmed. The baby has been placed under the care of Social Development. Three people, including the 34-year-old biological mother of the baby, another woman and a man, have been arrested and are in custody. African News Agency