CAPE TOWN Former Democratic Alliance leader Helen Zille will appear before the party s Federal Legal Commission on Saturday. DA Leader @MmusiMaimane has referred @helenzille to the Federal Legal Commission for investigation: https://t.co/jGjRTKECLsIt will decide whether Zille should face a disciplinary committee for her social media posts.If found guilty she could face wide-ranging punishment, including being stripped of her job.Last week, the Western Cape Premier published a series of tweets saying colonialism wasn t all bad. For those claiming legacy of colonialism was ONLY negative, think of our independent judiciary, transport infrastructure, piped water etc.READ: DA moves ahead in possible disciplinary action against ZilleShe later backtracked, saying her posts were taken out of context, and has since kept a low profile.But she did write an opinion piece attempting to explain her views, and last week at the Knysna Literary Festival aimed to contextualise them.Speaking to the Knysna-Plett Herald, Zille said, And then I said, for those claiming colonialism was only negative I m not saying it wasn t negative. I know how negative it is. And I always only thought it was negative. Going to Singapore opened my eyes to a different way of looking at it. Zille s faced harsh criticism from fellow politicians and members of the public, including DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Gauteng Premier David Makhura, who have condemned her comments. Let's make this clear: Colonialism, like Apartheid, was a system of oppression and subjugation. It can never be justified.The Western Cape Legislature will also hold a special debate on the Premier s tweets at a later date.ANC MPL Cameron Dugmore said, There is huge division amongst DA MPLs. It's clear that they are very unhappy about the leadership provided by Helen Zille. Her comments, her insensitivity and that she can't even understand why her own members, especially the black members of the DA find this so insulting. But DA Provincial Leader Bonginkosi Madikizela said the debate would not affect unity in the DA's caucus."We must not allow our opponents to use this opportunistically, to destroy the party... We must never be naive and think that debate is just about Helen," said madikizela.The DA's Legal Commission Chair, Glynnis Breytenbach, confirmed she would meet with Zille before the party decides whether to go ahead with a proper disciplinary hearing. eNCA