JOHANNESBURG - Sport and Recreation Minister Fikile Mbalula, on Tuesday said he is disappointed in the decision to withdraw 2022 Commonwealth Games from Durban."The bidding company spent R118 million to win the rights. This amount of money is a fraction to what our competitors have spent." said Sports and Recreation DG and COO Alec Moemi. "We learned back in 2010 that the only people that went smiling were FIFA. We are much wiser. We can't be bullied anymore. Moemi said South Africa fundamentally lost the games because of a disagreement on the budget and urged citizens to be happy with this stance."We could not hand over to a business to run the games and then when they needed more money, government must pay the cost overrun. MoemiWe are confident that we have acted in the best way for South Africans. Gratitude to SASCOC and the CGF for trusting our bid.@MbalulaFikile"This will not hurt South Africa, still building the new housing settlement (Cornubia). You can still bungee jump at the stadium. The CGF really wanted to bring the games here but they did not want to come here and not make money and we could not agree on that.""We want to thank everyone who believed in us hosting. We are not arrogant, we are accountable," Mbalula said.READ: Liverpool ready to host 2022 Commonwealth GamesMbalula said South Africa will continue to bid for big events and that the country is ready to bid for the Rugby World Cup."We will continue to bid for big events. We are ready to bid for the Rugby World Cup. @MbalulaFikile"Any loss of money is regrettable. It means a lot to us. We went out of our way to get the games." @MbalulaFikile"We are disappointed. We cannot spend money we do not have. We have to look at it from a sanity perspective," said Sascoc CEO Tubby Reddy. Durban was the only bidder for the 2022 Commonwealth Games.Now, Liverpool and Birmingham both have bids in place to host the sporting event."We will not be able to recover the money. It is a risk to bid. Having bid for events before we are much more smarter and bid less," MoemiThe clauses in the agreement that were going to compromise South Africa if we signed the Host City Agreement #Durban2022 pic.twitter.com/ssxXAikmC3Having learnt lessons from other events, South Africa had no appetite to issue an open ended guarantee including #Durban2022 pic.twitter.com/YqWZgWhGrXexpectation that SA Gov will provide more than what cabinet had approved could not be sustained in the current economic climate. #Durban2022eNCA