JOHANNESBURG - Bafana Bafana stand-in coach Owen da Gama believes his troops achieved something from their two international friendly matches against Guinea-Bissau and Angola over the last week. Bafana beat Guinea-Bissau 3-1 at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban over the weekend, and played to a goalless draw against Angola at Buffalo City Stadium in East London on Tuesday.Bafana were using the encounters to prepare for the upcoming 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifiers against Cape Verde later this year.UPDATED: Moroka Swallows in danger of another relegation I believe it was a very worthwhile exercise for us. The two opponents (Guinea-Bissau and Angola) have typical Portuguese influence, which Cape Verde also has off the ball running, very quick, and technically very strong players but not physically overpowering. There s a lot of similarities and now we have a good idea of what to expect when we face Cape Verde.This was the best possible preparation we could have had for the World Cup qualifier, said Da Gama. But also you have to understand that in a qualifier, it s far different than in a friendly match in a qualifier you can only make three substitutions, you have to be sure of the positions you are going to play meaning you have to make sure that you put the right person in the right position and there s no time for trial and error. READ: Crisis-hit Argentina risk missing World CupDa Gama had said he would use all the 25 players called up to the national team for the two friendly matches, but it did not happen especially in the second match against Angola where he made nine changes which included three debutants. It was a game where we really wanted to see how much depth we have. We tried to keep some form of a structure with Mathoho, Langerman and Rivaldo as well as Jali and Mabunda, just to have a good spine. We also gave Thopola and the youngsters (Mahlambi and Singh) a chance so they could get a feel for it it was not a test for the youngsters, and you have to understand it s a big jump from Under-20 to Bafana Bafana, said Da Gama. When we realised the combination was not working, we made changes at the break. We brought on Ramahlwe, not because Thopola was doing anything bad but we wanted more attacking options which Ramahlwe gives we were looking for a goal. There was also support for Percy Tau from Themba Zwane, Thulani Serero and Keagan Dolly and he (Percy) started finding his feet. In the second half we stamped our authority. READ: Dutch based Mokotjo granted SA citizenshipOnly three players did not feature in the two matches goalkeeper Shu-Aib Walters, defender Lorenzo Gordinho and striker Lars Veldwijk. We wanted a win badly, especially for the local supporters who were supportive from the minute we landed in East London. But it was not to be. We also wanted to bring in Gordinho but we had to keep it as stable as possible, added Da Gama. It was just unfortunate that we could not play every player in camp, but they got to feel what Bafana Bafana is all about and next time they won t be overawed by the occasion and will fit in easier. African News Agency