PARLIAMENT - Social Development Minister, Bathabile Dlamini, should "refrain wherever possible, from reading her entire speech."All manner of points of order were raised by various MPs in an effort to disrupt the minister's speech in Parliament's House of Debate on Tuesday. DA says 'frivoulous' points of order do not enhance debate in parliament. That's as a point is made about speech reading etiquette #eNCA Members of Parliament (MPs) were debating the Social Security Agency's grant payment crisis."Is it parliamentary for her to wear ANC clothing?" was another point raised by EFF MP and deputy secretary, Hlengiwe Hlophe.The fracas then almost led to a cat-fight between opposition MPs when an ANC member, by return, later questioned the wearing of EFF regalia the National Assembly during the debate.Prophets of DoomWhen Dlamini managed to speak, she referred to "Prophets of Doom," blaming them for having confused grant beneficiaries and ordinary South Africans. She also said there was no crisis. Shouts for Minster Dlamini to resign in parliament after she won't answer a 'simple' question. #SASSA #eNCA She reiterated that social grants would be paid on 1 April, before she was interrupted again. Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli had his hands full keeping order, and holding MPs to their time limit for debating.During times of order, Dlamini said Sassa has paid the right grant to the right person since its inception 10 years ago. She conceded that the SA Post Office (Sapo) has admitted it actually cannot pay grants, since many offices have been closed. Sapo had been one consideration for the takeover of grant payment distribution.Dlamini must goDuring the ensuing debate, many MPs called for the Social Development Minister to step down.READ: Get rid of Dlamini, say DA and CopeThe IFP called for a parliamentary inquiry into the Cash Paymaster Services contract, the company which manages the distribution of grant payments. The IFP's Mkhuleko Hlengwa accused the ANC of benefitting from the CPS relationship, saying that CPS provides food parcels for ANC party campaigns. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa says Minister Dlamini once landed at a funeral with a helicopter and the aircraft was hired by CPS. #SASSA An enraged Hlengwa said Dlamini is a threat to the country's stability and must go."The fact of the is that minister has aided and abetted this crisis, sitting on it for three years after the ConCourt told her to intervene -- she did nothing!" he said."Now we're forced to enter into a contract with a bunch of crooks in the name of CPS ...we can't allow this to go on."The DA's Bridget Masango, meanwhile, said Dlamini has been reckless with the lives of 10-million people. The EFF's Ntombovuyo Mente added a voice saying only a 'sick government' will mess with people's ability to eat.Freedom Front Plus' Corne Mulder said Minister Dlamini was in contempt of court, saying the situation in the Social Development department is out of control. The Cope's Willie Madisha said government doesn't respect the law or the courts.The AIC's Mandlenkosi Galo said the Sassa debacle is a human rights travesty, while the DA's Karen Jooste said the low value of grants was a national embarrassment.Agang's Molapi Plouamma said Minister Dlamini should be fired for dereliction of duty. He added he could "smell the encroaching fingers of the president." Plouamma said Dlamini is the worst minister the ANC has ever produced.*You may follow more of the debate in Tweets by eNCA anchor, Shahan Ramkissoon, below:Tweets about #SASSA AND (FROM:@ShahanR since:2017-03-14 until:2017-03-15) eNCA