JOHANNESBURG - Land Rover has now officially plugged the gap between the Range Rover Evoque and Range Rover Sport by announcing the arrival of the Range Rover Velar.Bigger than Evoque but smaller than Sport, the Velar will be competing with cars like the BMW X4 and Mercedes-Benz GLC Coupe when it lands in South Africa during the fourth quarter of the year.Here follows some of the car s details.Dimensions describe its place in the range, so to speak; 4.8 metres long, 1.9m wide, 1.67m tall, has a 2.8m wheelbase, and a ground clearance of 21.3cm. These figures make it longer but slimmer than cousin Jaguar F-PACE, while maintaining the same height. Because this is a Land Rover after all, several off-road friendly attributes have been designed into it, such as the wading depth of 600mm, an approach angle of 24.5 degrees and a departure angle of 27 degrees. It is quite a heavy car though, pulling in at between 2.4 and 2.6 tonnes, depending on the specific model.The Velar is designed to be both practical as well as beautiful, exhibiting some of the best looks ever encountered from any SUV. The front grille pays homage to the big body Range Rover but with very attractive updates, such as the Matrix-Laser LED headlights, the mid bumper, and lower grille with sporty side blades. Perhaps the two most striking features of the side profile is the coupe-like rear roofline which speaks to the vehicle s fastback inspiration, and the flush deployable door handles which are new to this segment. We can also see the blade-like wrapped extensions of the headlights and rear lights, while the rear end itself seems to shrink towards the centre, creating a look that gives the Velar speed even while stationary.As we peek inside we see quite a hi-tech interior that s contrasted by the use of textile seat material instead of full leather. Some might criticise this and say it cheapens the Velar, but we have seen this sort of material before and it works fine. The infotainment system touch screen displays probably rank among the best in the business, with two 25.4cm main screens located in step at the centre of the dashboard. Range Rover calls it the Touch Pro Duo.Velar will initially launch with five engines, starting from a 2.0-litre turbo diesel with 132kW to a 280kW supercharged petrol V6. A petrol producing 221kW will be added in 2018, and we believe a high-performance SVR model will also join the fray around 2020 with over 350kW of power to play with. The Velar is obviously all-wheel-drive (AWD) and uses an 8-speed automatic gearbox to put it all down on the floor.IN4RIDE