DURBAN South Africa made anything but light work of a 3-1 win in a friendly international against Guinea-Bissau at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday afternoon. While Bafana enjoyed good passages of play and the score-line suggested a comfortable afternoon, it was far from a polished performance from the home side. Indeed, two of their goals came from the penalty spot after some reckless challenges by the visiting side, South Africa s application and decision-making in the final third of the field too often lacking quality and conviction. Guinea-Bissau had enjoyed an excellent chance to take the lead with just five minute on the clock, after Toni Brito beat the offside trap and found himself clean through on goal. But he took too long to get a shot away, and allowed Itumuleng Khune and the Bafana defence to get back and reclaim possession. South Africa did look bright and breezy when they had the ball and they strung some nice moves together, but a combination of a poor final ball and several off-sides meant the Guinea-Bissau goal went largely unthreatened. The Wild Dogs, meanwhile, looked a threat going forward with their more direct approach and had another chance on 17 minutes when Francisco da Silva cut in from the left flank before unleashing a drive which didn t miss by much. But it was the home side who were to score first, via a clinically struck Kermit Erasmus penalty kick in the 36th minute. The spot kick was awarded after Thulani Serero ran onto Keagan Dolly s through-ball, beating the keeper on the edge of the box before being fouled by Rudnilson Silva. Serero should have doubled the advantage three minutes before half-time when another slick interchange between several Bafana players saw him in on goal, but instead of shooting, the Ajax Amsterdam man tried unsuccessfully to back-heel the ball to a team-mate. Serero had a couple more half chances after the half time break in Durban, but again showed a lack of composure and confidence in front of goal as the score-line remained unchanged. Instead it was left to substitute and debutant Percy Tau to show how to finish, the Mamelodi Sundowns forward curling in a sublime 68th minute shot from a tight angle on the left hand side of the box into an empty net, after goalkeeper Rui Camara had found himself poorly-positioned. The visitors were back in the game in 12 minutes from time when Brito evaded several tackles down the right flank before crossing to the back post for Aldair Balde to slot in. After Serero squandered another good chance, Khune did well to tip Balde s free kick over the bar to prevent the equaliser. But any hopes of a comeback for the visiting side were dashed in the 88th minute when another clumsy challenge in the box resulted in a spot kick being awarded which Andile Jali dispatched with ease. Next up for caretaker coach Owen Da Gama and his Bafana side is a friendly international with Angola in East London on Tuesday evening.African News Agency