LUSAKA South Africa s coach Thabo Senong says his side are underdogs going into Wednesday s Under-20 Afcon semifinal match against Zambia in Lusaka.Zambia and South Africa have met twice since December 2016 with the junior Chipolopolo triumphing via 2-1 score including the victory in the Cosafa Championship tournament.Amajita beat Sudan 3-1 to qualify for the semifinals, consequently earning a FIFA World Cup slot in South Korea later in May.Four teams in the semifinals are Zambia, South Africa, Senegal and Guinea and will fly the continental flag in South Korea.Senong said: It will be a very delicate encounter against a beautiful Zambian team that will have the support of its fans.READ: Bucs show fight, but still desperate for a win Let us not deceive ourselves; Zambia is under pressure from its fans to win the tournament so we will see how the match comes out. When you are an underdog, you work very hard; you are always in the performance zone. I am happy that we won t be in the comfort zone. When we came in this tournament, we were obvious underdogs. Nobody gave us a chance to go to the next round. Even now, nobody is giving us a chance that we can win the semifinal against Zambia. We are very pleased to have reached this level of competition because, beyond the title, the ambition of the South African Football Association is to build a competitive group of players for the future. Amajita captain Tercious Malepe was in a confident mood. We will approach the semifinal to win it. We must not take into account our two recent defeats against the Zambians. At stake is a place in the final, and we are ready at all levels. IN PICTURES: Soweto Derby feverMeanwhile, Zambian coach Beston Chambeshi had this to say: There will be no pressure on the Zambia team. The team has confidence in its ability to win the semifinal against South Africa, whom we have beaten twice recently. However, it will be different with another approach. We don t want to go into extra time or penalties. This does not mean that we underestimate our opponents. On the contrary, we are convinced that it will be difficult for the two teams. We know that our opponent scores a lot of goals but it will not stop us from being on the offensive. We have a good attack and a good defence that has conceded only two goals. This does not mean that we will be content to defend. African News Agency