JOHANNESBURG - African National Congress (ANC) veteran Ahmed Kathrada passed away in the early hours of Tuesday morning.The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation said in a statement it was deeply saddened to announce the passing on of ANC veteran Ahmed Kathrada (87) this morning, at the Donald Gordon Hospital in Johannesburg .The foundation said Kathrada, who was affectionately known as uncle Kathy , passed away peacefully after a short period of illness, following brain surgery.#Kathrada (87) has passed on early this morning. Read more for details: https://t.co/XCypRLiMM6Kathrada will be buried according to Muslim religious rights at the West Park Cemetry on Wednesday. IN PICTURES: The life of Ahmed KathradaDerek Hanekom, chairperson of the Kathrada Foundation, was overcome with emotion saying he has lost a revolutionary mentor and dear friend. Comrade Kathy was a gentle, humane and humble soul. He was a determined revolutionary who gave his entire life to the liberation struggle in our country. he added.WATCH: Tributes pour in for Ahmed KathradaLeah & I extend our deepest condolences to all who loved & were loved by #AhmedKathrada. God bless you all.Fellow Robben Island prisoner, Laloo Isu Chiba (86) said that his comrade s death has left a deep vacuum in his life. He spent 18 years on Robben Island, and was imprisoned shortly after Kathrada. I have worked with Kathy for over sixty years. He has been my strength in prison, my guide in political life and my pillar of strength in the most difficult moments of my life. Now he is gone, said a visibly shaken Chiba. Kathrada has had an illustrious political career having served between 1994 and 1999 as the parliamentary counsellor to late President Nelson Mandela.Archbishop Tutu said on the death of Kathrada: "When the gates of apartheid's political prisons swung open in 1989/1990 the quality of the human beings who emerged was an extraordinary blessing for all South Africans. These were people of the highest integrity and moral fibre who, through their humility and humanity, inspired our collective self-worth and the world's confidence in us."READ: Tutu discharged from hospital"Ahmed Kathrada was one of those leaders. A man of remarkable gentleness, modesty and steadfastness he once wrote to the President to argue that he did not deem himself important enough to be awarded a high honour.A leader who embraced the simple life, who eschewed consumptiveness, who supported righteous causes at home and abroad, whose loyalty to the ANC extended, also, to criticising it.""The struggle denied Ahmed Kathrada the opportunity to have children of his own; he was first imprisoned at the age of 17. But many South Africans looked up to him as a favourite grandparent.""Leah and I extend our deepest condolences to all who loved and were loved by Ahmed Kathrada. God bless you all.""May Ahmed rest in peace and rise in glory. May he rejoice in many heavenly cups of hot chocolate with his old friends and comrades, Mandela, Sisulu, Mbeki, Motsoaledi and Mahlaba, among them.Long may the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation fertilise and grow this great soul's legacy of non-racial justice."Struggle veteran, Sophie de Bruyn said Kathrada was kind and outspoken when he needed to be: Zenani Mandela has described Kathrada as her other father, and one of Madiba s greatest friends:Poet and activist Barbara Mase-kela says Ahmed Kathrada devoted his life to ending discrimination: We lower our revolutionary banners as we both mourn and celebrate a giant of our times. #RIPUncleKathy pic.twitter.com/QMveVEOkyCTo Ntate #AhmedKathrada, your life was spent in the fight for our freedom. May your soul rest in revolutionary peace #RIP pic.twitter.com/CmaFBcxD5YHamba kahle Uncle Kathy. May your unwavering commitment to justice and reconciliation live on in all of us. - @MmusiMaimane #AhmedKathrada Former President of South Africa Kgalema Motlanthe shares his memories of #AhmedKathrada pic.twitter.com/DGKZ6J0QW1 *Watch fellow struggle veterans Dennis Goldberg, former South African president Kgalema Motlanthe and George Bizos pay tribute to the life of Ahmed Kathrada in gallery above.- Additional reporting ANA - Tweets about #AhmedKathrada AND (FROM:@jody_jacobs since:2017-03-28 until:2017-03-29) eNCA