JOHANNESBURG Orlando Pirates will be hoping to snap a winless streak in 2017 when they tackle perennial rivals Kaizer Chiefs in an Absa Premiership clash at the FNB Stadium on Saturday afternoon.Pirates are experiencing a dreadful run of form, the Buccaneers last won a game in November and have had their dugout manned by three men already this season.Chiefs on the other hand will head into the derby on the back of a seven game unbeaten run which included five wins on the trot.Amakhosi and the 'Buccaneers' coaches and captains have arrived at the presser. #KCSowetoDerbyEXP #AmakhosiFamily pic.twitter.com/afZJkPVswSChiefs coach Steve Komphela hopes his side will take advantage of their neighbour s poor run of form, however the 49-year-old is mindful that form counts for nothing heading into the Soweto derby and has warned his players against complacency and taking their opponents lightly. Whatever has happened in the past counts for nothing, this is Orlando Pirates versus Kaizer Chiefs and apart from that it is a football match, it is a great occasion, Komphela said. We just have to be ready and I don t prefer the fact that they have been going through a bad patch because it possess a bigger danger that we have to focus completely, we don t go into the match complacent thinking that by the way based on how they are, then the outcome is going to be this, it is going to be completely different. READ: PSL charges Pirates, Sundowns for Loftus violenceKomphela has cautioned that whichever team is not mentally ready on Saturday afternoon in front of a packed FNB Stadium will be in for the shock of their lives.Komphela, who captained Bafana Bafana in the 1990s, hopes that senior players and derby warhorses in his team like Siphiwe Tshabalala, Itumeleng Khune and Bernard Parker will share their experiences with Absa Premiership novices like Gustavo Paez. You can literally guide those who don t have the same level of experience, said Komphela. The more consistent you go through a process, you adapt and the better you respond. The first experiences tend to be more of shockers. READ: Sundowns, Chippa play to stalemate in PretoriaKomphela s counterpart at Pirates is little unknown Kjell Jonevret. A gentlemen's handshake. It's coach @Kjellejon vs coach Steve Komphela, who's got your vote? #AmakhosiFamily pic.twitter.com/MsFT3a2VreThe Swede who was unveiled just nearly two weeks ago will enter a baptism of fire at the cauldron of South African football and hopes to win over the Buccaneers supporters by claiming a major scalp against their bitter nemesis. A game like this is nerves and you don't know how the players are going to react when they get out there, said Jonevret. They (players) are really looking forward to this because this season has been trouble. This is a big chance for them. They know there is some pressure on them. My advice to them is go out there, have some fun and show they are good footballers.Six places separate both teams on the log standings with Chiefs currently occupying fourth place with 34 points from 19 games.Pirates are placed 10th with 21 points from 18 games.Saturday will be the 161st meeting between the Soweto rivals.Chiefs have been victorious 67 times compared to Pirates 38 wins.eNCA