PRETORIA - The vehicles used during a brazen cash heist at the OR Tambo International Airport were bogus and did not belong to the SA Police Service (SAPS), acting national commissioner General Khomotso Phahlane said on Thursday.Two police-branded vehicles used in the robbery, and fitted with blue lights, were reportedly found abandoned in Pretoria on Wednesday. Bogus police vehicles were used in the commission of the crime. Those were not police-owned vehicles maybe you can ask business people out there who do vehicle markings about this. The suspects were armed and had one thing on their mind to take whatever they came for, Phahlane told reporters in Pretoria.Investigation of the heist was continuing after a task team was put together to find the robbers. Investigators were questioning members of the SAPS and employees of the Airports Company of SA (Acsa).READ: Prisons commissioner warns against job scamsThe scope of the investigation might be widened to include business people who deal with vehicle markings, said Phahlane.Security has been beefed up in and around the airport.Phahlane said the robbery was a security breach that had been well planned, and that there was no evidence of corrupt officers. There is no evidence that anyone was bribed to allow robbers through. Where there was criminality and it is found, it is dealt with accordingly." "There is also no reason we should doubt the competency of our officers at the airport, which is a national key point. This was a security breach and perpetrators will be brought to book. But Phahlane added that the possibility of the cash heist being an inside job was not being ruled out.He could not confirm the amount of cash stolen, reported to be in excess of R24-million in foreign currency and destined for overseas. Even if we were to be told that the amount is R24-million or R20-million, that is subject to an investigation and must be verified, including where the money was destined for. We are satisfied that the cargo was legitimate and destined to leave the country. During the robbery on Tuesday evening vehicles occupied by several armed men, some of whom were in police uniforms, gained access a restricted area of the airport. When asked to validate their credentials, they produced firearms, rounded up staff at the security checkpoint and ordered them to lie on the floor, according to Acsa.The group then proceeded to gain access to the air side of the airport, where they removed an undisclosed amount of money from a sealed container. No shots were fired or injuries reported. African News Agency