 >> Having trouble viewing the video? Click here for an alternative viewing. PRETORIA - The swearing-in ceremony for the newly deployed Ministers and Deputy Ministers has taken place at the Sefako Makgatho Presidential Guest House in Pretoria.The new members of the National Executive were appointed by President Jacob Zuma on Thursday, 30 March 2017.READ: List of new ministers 'came from somewhere else': MantasheMinisters who were already serving in Cabinet in other portfolios as well as serving Deputy Ministers who are taking up responsibilities in new portfolios did not have to be sworn in for the second time, a statement released by government declared.WATCH: 'ANC voters probably proud of mess they caused' - EFFOn Friday, President Jacob Zuma released an official statement on the changes made to cabinet, which read as follows:"I have decided to make changes to the National Executive in order to improve efficiency and effectiveness.The changes bring some younger MPs and women into the National Executive in order to benefit from their energy, experience and expertise.I have directed the new Ministers and Deputy Ministers to work tirelessly with their colleagues to bring about radical socio-economic transformation and to ensure that the promise of a better life for the poor and the working class becomes a reality.The new members are the following; Ministers 1. Minister of Energy, Ms Mmamoloko Nkhensani Kubayi 2. Minister of Transport, Mr Joe Maswanganyi 3. Minister of Finance, Mr Malusi Gigaba 4. Minister of Police, Mr Fikile Mbalula 5. Minister of Public Works, Mr Nathi Nhleko, 6. Minister of Sports and Recreation, Mr Thembelani Nxesi 7. Minister of Tourism, Ms Tokozile Xasa 8. Minister of Public Service and Administration, Ms Faith Muthambi 9. Minister of Home Affairs, Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize 10. Minister of Communications, Ms Ayanda Dlodlo Deputy Ministers 1. Deputy Minister of Public Service and Administration, Ms Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba 2. Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Sifiso Buthelezi 3. Deputy Minister of Public Enterprises, Mr Ben Martins 4. Deputy Minister of Arts and Culture, Ms Maggie Sotyu 5. Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Mr Gratitude Magwanishe 6. Deputy Minister of Communications, Ms Thandi Mahambehlala, 7. Deputy Minister of Tourism, Ms Elizabeth Thabethe 8. Deputy Minister of Police, Mr BonganiMkongi 9. Deputy Minister of Telecommunications and Postal Services, Ms Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams 10. Deputy Minister of Small Business Development, Ms Nomathemba November. I wish to extend my gratitude to the outgoing Ministers and Deputy Ministers for their service to the country. I also wish the new Ministers and Deputy Ministers the best in their new responsibilities." eNCA