CANBERRA - Centre Lukhanyo Am brought some much-needed joy to the Sharks with a last-gasp that gave the Durban side a 27-22 Super Rugby victory over the Brumbies in Canberra on Saturday. With time up on the clock and the scores locked at 22-22, the Sharks required something special to pull victory out of the bag, and they got it from replacement fullback Curwin Bosch. The SA Under-20 star produced a moment of magic as a burst of pace took him away from a Brumbies defender. But just when it looked like he was going to be bundled into touch, Bosch chipped the ball inside with the outside of his right boot in an attempt to find Am. The ball bounced perfectly beyond the Brumbies cover defence, and into Am s hands, with the Sharks No 13 diving over for the winning touchdown. This was just their third victory in 11 attempts in Canberra.VIDEO: The winning moment from today's match. 81st Min TRY for Lukhanyo Am #OurSharks #BRUvSHA pic.twitter.com/6DiU9b2ggiIt was just reward for a hard-working performance from Robert du Preez s team, especially when they were 15-3 down at the half-hour mark. Captain Patrick Lambie and his team mounted a spirited fight back just before half-time, when they scored 10 points in five minutes to go into the break at 15-13 down. They were on the back foot from the start after Wallaby wing Henry Speight finished smartly in the right-hand corner, following a well-worked line-out variation that was thrown by left wing James Dargaville, before inside centre Kyle Godwin produced a long cut-out pass that Speight latched on to and rounded off. It was a bit of an arm-wrestle for the next 20 minutes, during which Lambie slotted his first penalty. But the Brumbies pack of forwards seemed to hold the upper hand, and proved that they had the edge when hooker Josh Mann-Rea charged over from a line-out maul to give the hosts a 12-3 lead. The Sharks hit back just before the break, though, when prop Tendai Mtawarira bashed his way over the line, and Lambie added another penalty to go into half-time at 15-13. While both teams battled to finish off their opportunities in the second half, Lambie kept the scoreboard ticking over with three more penalties for a six-out-of-eight record to build a seven-point cushion at 22-15 with 15 minutes to go. Their dreams of victory were nearly shattered when Wallaby midfielder Tevita Kuridrani sliced open the defence to level the scores at 22-22, and it looked like the game was heading for a draw. But Bosch stepped up to spark a vital triumph for the Sharks as Am raced over in the closing seconds.Scorers: Brumbies 22 (15): Tries: Henry Speight, Josh Mann-Rea, Tevita Kuridrani. Conversions: Wharenui Hawera (1), Isaac Thompson (1). Penalty: Hawera (1). Sharks 27 (13): Tries: Tendai Mtawarira, Lukhanyo Am. Conversion: Patrick Lambie (1). Penalties: Lambie (5).African News Agency