HAMILTON - Faf du Plessis was leading from the front as South Africa worked their way out of trouble on day one of the third Test against New Zealand in Hamilton on Saturday. So a big 'CONGRATULATIONS' to @Theunis88 on his first Test cap. Sun has crept out now in Hamilton, Around 15 minutes away from start #NZvSA pic.twitter.com/3rVCrJ1z2lThe Proteas' captain punished New Zealand for wasting their decision reviews and was unbeaten on 33 at tea after receiving a life on 16. Play has been called off for Day 1 of the 3rd Test. #NZvSAAfter rain brought an early end to the middle session 14.2 overs after lunch, South Africa were 123 for four with Temba Bavuma on 13 in a 26-run partnership with du Plessis.Hashim Amla, who mounted an early rescue mission when South Africa were two down for five runs, was dismissed after lunch for 50, his 32nd half-century. Here's another milestone for Amla, the 32nd time he has crossed the 50 mark in his career. SA 93/3 #ProteaFire #NZvSA pic.twitter.com/BAdAJ4iQtZIt left the 33-year-old needing 67 more runs to become the fourth South African and only the 30th player ever to total 8,000 career runs.New Zealand, meanwhile, were ruing their misuse of the decision review system which has cost them two wickets.They did not review a rejected Neil Wagner lbw appeal against JP Duminy on seven when the ball tracker technology signalled a direct hit.READ: Black Caps boost spin options for Proteas Test seriesThey then over-compensated by wasting their two reviews on correctly-called not out decisions which left them helpless to contest another decision for 51 overs when the second new ball is available.The magnitude of the error became apparent two overs after the second lost review when umpire Bruce Oxenford missed a faint edge from du Plessis off the luckless Wagner which was taken by BJ Watling behind the stumps.It continued a charmed run for du Plessis who has seven fours in his 33, including from edges over the wicketkeeper, through the slips and just wide of gully.But there were mixed fortunes for du Plessis at the start of the day.He won the toss for the eighth consecutive time in New Zealand but then saw both openers fall in the first four overs.READ: Domingo seeks Proteas progressDebutant Theunis de Bruyn's introduction to Test cricket ended with a third-ball duck when he edged Matt Henry to Tom Latham at second slip. So the big news is the debut of @Theunis88. He is in the team for @stephen_cook91 in the only change for SA #NZvSA pic.twitter.com/5dtv6bkcFfDean Elgar was bowled when he shouldered arms to a Colin de Grandhomme ball that came back from outside the off stump.Henry accounted for Duminy, caught on the boundary for 20 just before lunch, and de Grandhomme bowled Amla seven overs after the resumption.South Africa lead the series 1-0 and want a win in Hamilton to move up to second on the world rankings.However, the weather had the final say on the first day of play. Showers have been forecasted for the remaining four days of the series. The umpires are still not happy with the state of the ground. Another inspection at 17h30. At least the rain has stopped #NZvSA pic.twitter.com/4wiZaiilj7AFP