JOHANNESBURG The Press Ombudsman, Johan Retief, has ordered the Sunday Times newspaper to retract its allegations about former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe.Retief on Tuesday ruled the paper has to retract and correct its report that alleged Molefe had claimed that he had been visiting a shebeen in Saxonwold .The ombud found that the paper had breached the Press Code, which requires the media to report truthfully, accurately and fairly.He furthermore rated the breach as a Tier 2 offence , which constitutes a serious breach of the code. If the Sunday Times said Molefe 'implied that he had visited the Saxonwold shebeen', or even that he had 'hinted that he might have gone to the place', I might have decided that the reportage was justified. What was reported, though, was that Molefe 'claimed' that he had been visiting a shebeen which he never did, said Mr Retief.Eskom s interim group chief executive Matshela Koko welcomed the ruling, saying: The Press Ombudsman s ruling is in line with our fervent calls for fair, accurate and truthful reporting. We hope this ruling will be a reminder to all media practitioners to report in a way that does not deviate from these central tenets of journalism. READ: Appointment of Eskom's acting Group CEO approvedMolefe had complained about a front-page article in the newspaper dated January 29, 2017, headlined "From Saxonwold shebeen to MP Shamed by public protector, Molefe is set for comeback".Molefe complained the story inaccurately and misleadingly reported he claimed to have visited a shebeen in Saxonwold, when he told a press briefing on November 3, 2016: There is a shebeen there, I think, it s two streets away from the Gupta house. Now I will not admit nor deny that I was going to the shebeen. Susan Smuts, legal editor of the Sunday Times, had argued the story quoted Molefe accurately and said his failure to acknowledge this in his complaint was puzzling .She said Molefe's comments about the Saxonwold shebeen were made to deflect attention from his involvement in the Tegeta/Optimum deal which was examined by then Public Protector Thuli Madonsela in her State of Capture report. Madonsela placed Molefe in the heart of what appeared to be a criminal and corrupt enterprise.Smuts said: Instead of explaining his 58 calls to Atul Gupta, and the cellphone records that placed him near the Guptas Saxonwold compound during the time that the deal was being concluded, he attempted to refute the report by making ill-judged jokes about the Saxonwold shebeen. The joke was on him, however, when social media made fun of him for the comments. He cannot say he was there (the shebeen), because no one knows where it is or indeed whether it exists. He cannot say he wasn t there, because he would have to admit he was trying to joke his way out of extremely serious allegations about his integrity and his duty to Eskom and the citizens of South Africa. His comments about the shebeen were not honestly made. He has yet to explain his relationship with the Guptas, and why he apparently put their interests above those of South Africa. We submit that his comments about the shebeen were steeped in duplicity. His complaint should be seen as a further attempt to put distance between himself and the events that gave rise to his comments, she argued.Retief concluded his ruling: "If Sunday Times said Molefe 'implied that he had visited the Saxonwold shebeen', or even that he had 'hinted that he might have gone to the place', I might have decided that the reportage was justified."What was reported, though, was that Molefe 'claimed' that he had been visiting a shebeen which he never did." Press Ombudsman Sunday Times report by eNCA.com on Scribd eNCA