CAPE TOWN Youngsters Jean-Luc du Preez (flank) and Curwin Bosch (replacement flyhalf) starred in the 37-14 Sharks win over the Waratahs on Saturday evening as the Durban team continued their impressive start to the 2017 Vodacom Super Rugby season.Du Preez, who made his Springbok debut last November against Wales in Cardiff, was presented with the Man of the Match award for his striking performance in a dominant home pack of forwards.Bosch, a former SA Schools and Junior Springbok star, delivered a polished performance after replacing injured skipper Pat Lambie early in the first half, scoring 27 points through a try, two conversions and six penalties.READ: TMO protocol changes for Super RugbyEarlier in Port Elizabeth, the visiting Stormers outscored the Southern Kings by six tries to one on their way to a comfortable 41-10.The team from Cape Town had several regulars missing because of injury and rotation led 17-3 at halftime.The Sunwolves gave the Cheetahs a hard workout in their clash in Bloemfontein and the home side did well to edge the visitors 38-31 in a close-fought affair.In the last fixture of the weekend played in Buenos Aires, home side the Jaguares defeated a reshuffled Lions side 36-24 after leading 21-7 at halftime.READ: Bulls, Cheetahs set for fiery Super Rugby derbyAfter three rounds of matches, the Stormers lead the South African Group on 13 points from their three wins.They are followed by the Sharks, Jaguares, Lions and the Cheetahs who all have nine points. Southern Kings 10 Stormers 41Scorers: Stormers 41: Tries: Dillyn Leyds, Bjorn Basson, Rynhardt Elstadt, Robert du Preez, Justin Philips and EW Viljoen; Conversions: Robert du Preez (2) and Kurt Coleman (2). Penalty: Robert du Preez.Southern Kings: 10: Try: Makozole Mapimpi; Conversion: Lionel Cronje; Penalty: Lionel Cronje.Cheetahs 38 Sunwolves 31Scorers: Cheetahs 38: Tries: Torsten van Jaarsveld, Oupa Mohoje, Clinton Swart, Rayno Benjamin. Conversions: Fred Zeilinga (4). Penalties: Zeilinga (4). Sunwolves 31: Tries: Shota Emi, Hayden Cripps, Kenki Fukuoka (2). Conversions: Cripps (2), Jamie-Jerry Taulagi. Penalty: Cripps.Sharks 37 NSW Waratahs 14Scorers: Sharks 37: Tries: Tera Mtembu, Curwin Bosch and Kobus van Wyk; Conversions: Curwin Bosch (2); Penalties: Bosch (6). Waratahs 14: Tries: Israel Folau (2); Conversions: Reece Robinson (2).Jaguares 36 Lions 24Scorers: Jaguares 36: Tries: Joaquin Tuculet, Ramiro Moyano, Jeronimo De la Fuente, Nicolas Sanchez. Conversions: Sanchez (3). Penalties: Sanchez (3). Lions 24: Tries: Warren Whiteley (2), Jacques van Rooyen, Malcolm Marx Conversion: Shaun Reynolds, Jaco van der Walt.Other Round 3 results:Chiefs 26 Hurricanes 18Brumbies 23 Force 17Reds 20 Crusaders 22Blues 12 Highlanders 16 LOG: Africa 2 #SuperRugby conference. pic.twitter.com/bLCO9OrEWy African News Agency