DURBAN - Police on Monday announced the establishment of a task team to investigate the killing of the municipal manager of the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands town of Richmond.Edward Sibusiso Sithole was gunned down in Victoria Street shortly before 9am by two unknown gunmen, who then fled in their get-away car.READ: Richmond municipal manager shot deadPolice spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said the team has been formed by the KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa to investigate the murder.According to Zwane, the municipal manager was 39-years-old.In a statement released on Monday afternoon, Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs spokesman Lennox Mabaso said: According to reports Sithole was brutally murdered after he was called to an incident in a nearby testing station. While the details are still sketchy, it is alleged that he was pulled off the road side by killers who posed as policemen. #Richmond municipal spokesman says manager Sibusiso Sithole left his office after a call this AM. 15 minutes later, he was shot. pic.twitter.com/NAM9BVM7ur Dean Macpherson, the Democratic Alliance s constituency head for the area, said that Sithole lost his life because he did not toe the line of the ruling African National Congress.He said that it had been no secret that Sithole had opposed the plan to increase the number of full-time councillors in the ANC controlled council. Sithole's family has asked for privacy, but a brother says he was considering other job offers. His contract expires at month end. #Richmond pic.twitter.com/TbfYa2TnrF Also in 2014, Sithole's office was torched - with damage running into the millions. #Richmond Due to his tough stance on corruption and maladministration, which clearly did not fit the program of action of the local ANC, Mr Sithole was forced to seek employment elsewhere and was due to take over as Municipal Manager at uMgeni Municipality on 13 March 2017, said MacPherson.He expressed his condolences to Sithole s family.National Freedom Party spokesman, Sabelo Sigudu expressed condolences on behalf of the party. He described the shooting as evil .It had initially been reported that Sithole was due to start at the Richmond Municipality, but in fact, Sithole had worked there for the past five years. In 2014, Sithole received an award for Best Municipal Manager in KZN. #Richmond pic.twitter.com/MCoTh1FPp2 African News Agency