JOHANNESBURG - Current FA Cup holders Manchester United head to Stamford Bridge to face runaway Premier League leaders Chelsea in an enticing FA Cup quarter-final affair.The Red Devils find themselves in the last eight via 4-0 wins over Reading and Wigan Athletic in the third and fourth rounds. They were made to work in the fifth round against Blackburn, recording a 2-1 win.READ: I'm staying at Manchester United says RooneyA demanding schedule makes progressing to the semi-finals a difficult task for United. Their exploits in the Europa League last week, mixed with their Premier League schedule has left Jose Mourinho a frustrated figure.However, the Portuguese mentor has insisted he is not taking the tournament lightly and will field his strongest possible 11 with the intention of going all the way to the final.READ: Mourinho demands United trophy charge"We cannot go with Nicky Butt's team [ie players from the under-23 team, managed by Butt]. Manchester United is too big. Manchester United is the winner of the competition, said Mourinho.Chelsea on the other hand have hadan easier schedule and were last in action a week ago. Antonio Conte s men find themselves enjoying a rich vein of form ten points clear at the top of the Premier League table.The Blues also recorded high-scoring victories en route the quarter-finals. A 4-1 win at home to Peterborough and a 4-0 win against Brentford set them up with a fifth round trip to Wolverhampton Wanderers which they again comfortably won 2-0.READ: Conte won't change his style despite Mourinho moanOn being labelled favourites Conte had this to say, "I hope to be favourites, but to show this on the pitch, not only in the words. The facts are on the pitch. We must talk during the game on the pitch, not before. I prefer to focus on the game, and my players to speak with facts."InjuriesJose Mourinho faces a conundrum in the striking department. United will be without captain Wayne Rooney who has a leg injury following a training ground clash, Zlatan Ibrahimovic begins a three-match ban following his red card against Bournemouth, and Anthony Martial and Marcus Rashford are both side-lined to illness.Antonio Conte has the luxury of a fully fit side.The two teams have been drawn against each other in the FA Cup on 11 previous occasions. United have claimed eight wins with three for Chelsea. But the Londoners will have the upper hand tonight should Conte field his strongest team.Predicted starting line-upsChelsea: Courtois; Azpilicueta, Luiz, Cahill; Moses, Kante, Fabregas, Alonso, Pedro, Costa, Hazard.Manchester United: De Gea; Valencia, Bailly, Smalling, Rojo, Herrera, Fellaini, Mkhitariyan, Pogba, Mata, Lingard. eNCA