JOHANNESBURG - In recent months a fair amount of concern has been expressed over proposed changes to road regulation which will affect most drivers on the road. MasterDrive is joining forces with Alta Swanepoel and Associates to look at these potential changes and what it means for you.Changes to the speed limit is one area where some of the most concern is being raised. According to Alta Swanepoel, the proposed changes can affect drivers of all vehicles. The proposal changes the speed limit from 60km/h to 40km/h and from 100km/h to 80km/h in urban areas. This applies to everyone. READ: Forced speed limiters coming soon ...Right now, these changes are still only proposals. According to the Department of Transport, however, motorists can expect them to come into effect during the course of the year. There is also no longer anything drivers can do to protest these changes. The comment period for the proposal was during 2015 and no further comments will be accepted.While the limits have not yet been changed for motor vehicles this is not so for mid-sized commercial vehicles. A speed reduction for goods vehicles with a gross vehicle mass between 3 500kg and 9 000kg is already in effect. The proposal was added on 11 November 2016. The maximum speed limit is now 100km/h for these vehicles, says Swanepoel.According to the MD of MasterDrive, Eugene Herbert, this could present problems for fleet operators. While speeding presents a major challenge for safety on our roads, changing these limits could present challenges for fleet managers in terms of delivery times and meeting targets. Additionally, we need to question whether these changes will have the desired effect. Will the drivers who currently disregard the speed limit, adhere to the new ones? Another challenge with crashes, where speed has an influence, is because often drivers do not differentiate their speed to the current conditions. We need to ask if a change to the speed limit will address these challenges? asks Eugene Herbert. STORY COURTESY OF MASTEDRIVE IN4RIDE