Why is this car so underrated?A question for the marketing theses really. Nevertheless we will attempt an answer, which is; market tastes. We believe the Passat and indeed, other cars in its segment, are simply victims of current market preferences which have chosen the SUV/ crossover above the big family sedan. Yes, pricing has something to do with it, however, there are higher-priced SUVs that people still buy over really good sedans, like the Passat. Simply put, the Passat is in a dying segment.That is a pityBest way to put it. We drove the car for a week and during that time we were constantly lamenting the fact that it was not selling over 100 units a month. At the very least. Spacious to a point of ridicule, good-looking to a point of boastfulness, frugal to a point of a 1 000km tank range WowBig car, good for big people with long legs too. Plus it swallows up so much luggage in the boot that you sometimes lose things in there. Officially the boot is 479 litres big. Legroom is exceptional too, allowing even people over 2 metres tall a comfortable ride in the back, something of a rarity in modern sedans. Passat can rival the Audi A6 on interior space, that s for sure. The leather seats are firm but supportive and are highly adjustable.Powertrain?Tried and tested, this combination of a torquey 2.0-litre TDI, front-wheel-drive and its DSG transmission delivers time and time again. While take-off is notably laggy, the S function paired with the Dynamic drive mode give extra revs to minimise this lag. Of course this is not a performance car, but it will keep up with most others anywhere. Most importantly is that it is very strong on uphills as well as in cruising. Frugality is its speciality; we achieved a tank range of just over 1 000km in everyday mixed driving (urban plus freeway). That means if you drive about 50km daily you can expect about 20 days of driving from one full tank (terms and conditions apply). Beautiful! Not a boring design is it?Definitely not. Honestly Volkswagen is currently selling some of the best-looking cars on the market, including this one. That big front grille makes a strong statement with its multiple blades and large headlights. The side profile is elegant but not monotonous, while the rear end just speaks volumes, not just because of the boot but because of the simple stylishness.Overall impression?One of the best cars on the road today. Beautiful to look at, packed with all the latest gadgetry and technology, rides comfortably, frugal engine and the price is not bad. The only thing is what we said earlier, that South Africans don t buy these types of large family sedans anymore. We seem to prefer SUVs instead. A real pity.QUICK STATSVOLKSWAGEN PASSAT 2.0 TDIENGINE: 2.0-litre turbo dieselPOWER: 130kW / 211 PS at 4 200rpm; 350Nm at 1 500rpm0 100KM/H: 8.8 secondsGEARBOX: 6-speed automatic DSG, front-wheel-drive (FWD)TOP SPEED: 228km/hFUEL AVERAGE: 6.6 l/100kmCO2 e: 132 g/kmPRICE STANDARD: R522 400NATURAL RIVALS: Ford Fusion 2.0 TDCI, Mercedes-Benz C220 dPRICE RIVALS: Audi Q3 2.0 TDI, BMW 230i Coupe, Ford Tourneo Custom 2.2 TDCI Trend, Mercedes-Benz C220 d, Volkswagen Amarok 2.0 biTDIBABE-MAGNETIC FACTOR: Medium-highIN4RIDE