JOHANNESBURG - Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) is said to be using the details of social grants beneficiaries for other benefits.But the company at the centre of the social grant payment crisis denies the allegations.Parliamentarians and many South Africans are asking who is in control of all that personal information?Is it Cash Paymaster Services or the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa)?CPS's mother company, Net1, owns various companies that sell airtime and electricity, microloans, and insurance.But Net1 chief executive officer Serge Belamant denied ever using CPS s access to the beneficiary database to market products from their other companies.He said, "People have reported (the allegation) to the competition commission. They (the commission) have thrown it out; they said it s a waste of time, they (Net1) are not doing this."You can make any allegation you like. CPS does talk to 10-million people every month, that is the truth. CPS is run completely independently. We don t even have staff overlap. We don t even have branch overlap with other companies."Collen Weapond from the newly established Chapter 9 Institution, the Information Regulator, said that control of the database is important."The people (CPS) who are entrusted with having to use that personal information - Sassa should be able to monitor that personal information ... is used exclusively for the purpose that... information was obtained for."Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini was quoted as saying, "Data is already coming to Sassa. I think we have half of it."WATCH: Minister Bathabile Dlamini scoffs at reporter's questionsEven if allegations of the use of beneficiary information being cross-sold are true, there's nothing legally that can be done as certain sections of the Protection of Personal Information Act dealing with direct marketing are yet to become operational. How to keep the poor poor and remain rich and in power. VERY DISTURBING read on what #CPS does through #SASSA. https://t.co/6CMYYPpi65 pic.twitter.com/XUc5J13pFk eNCA