South African rugby, and the Springboks in particular, have endured a rather tumultuous period of late. Four wins out of twelve in 2016 left fans wondering what was happening to the former powerhouse of world rugby.But this season there appears to be a silver lining to this dark cloud.The Springbok Sevens team, aka the Blitzboks, have set the World Rugby Sevens circuit alight. Their performances have been head and shoulders above the other teams in the series, including the Rio Olympics and 2016 Series champions Fiji.Neil Powell has been in-charge of the team for four years now. Perhaps based on a disappointing bronze-medal finish at the 2016 Olympics, Powell last year signed on for an additional four years, taking the team to the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo.The Stellenbosch Academy of Sport is what the Blitzboks call home. It is there where they live, eat and sleep Sevens rugby. The fact that the team has been housed under one roof has perhaps contributed to their recent success. They often refer to themselves as a "Brotherhood". The skills and togetherness of this team are evident on and off the field of play. I ve been privileged to spend time on and off the field with the players and I can say without a shadow of a doubt that these are a special bunch of individuals and collectively they are simply amazing.South Africa won their only Sevens World Series title in the 2008-2009 season. Since then they ve managed five runners-up positions in the last seven tournaments.But we are not here for a history lesson. This current season, this brotherhood has given South African rugby fans something to cheer about. Social media is abuzz when the Blitzboks are playing, even though those matches are often in the early hours of the morning South African time.Five tournaments have been played and Powell s side boast four tournament wins and have a healthy 24-point lead over rivals Fiji going into the Vancouver tournament. Their only let-down being at the Cape Town Sevens tournament, where they placed second. They ve lost only two (both against England) of 30 matches this season and many will bet on that number not changing by too much.Belief in systems and processes is what the team pin their recent successes on. Their style of play is of an exciting nature and has seen them score the most tries (129) this season so far. Along with that effectiveness with the ball in hand the Blitzboks have shown a typically South African grittiness in defence, having conceded the least amount of points against them. A further encouraging fact is the blooding of fresh talent on the biggest stage. This season has seen Zain Davids and Stedman Gans make their World Sevens Series debuts. Both have held their own among the more seasoned professionals.Many have called for the Boks to emulate the Blitzboks, but, simply put, what these players have and will achieve cannot be copied. They ve identified a style of play and they ve worked long and hard to achieve it. Watching the Springboks last year was painful. Many asked me what I thought was wrong, and I simply said their style of play was lacking, their game plan often non-existent.Individual brilliance coupled with teamwork has simply set the Blitzboks apart from the rest.I personally feel that in terms of a plan that is being effectively implemented by management, as well as togetherness and individual skill shown by the players, one cannot compare the Boks to the Blitzboks.eNCA