• Editor's note: This article has been updated with new information. CAPE TOWN - The trial of triple murder-accused Henri van Breda has been postponed to 24 April. Western Cape High Court Judge Siraj Desai said he doesn't intend to delay the trial unnecessarily. Earlier, Desai ordered a suspension of his earlier ruling that gave Media 24 the go-ahead to live stream proceedings during the trial. On Monday, Desai granted the digital publisher the right to take still photos and video 15 minutes before court every day and after the adjournment of proceedings. During court sittings, he ruled that two video cameras may be set up and “record with guidelines”. They may not be attended, must be stationary and on tripods so that there was as “little intrusion as possible”. He also ordered that no photographs or video footage be taken of Marli van Breda. However, Desai suspended his order and said the criminal trial would proceed at 2.15pm. Reasons for his earlier order would be made available to the state and defence next week. READ: Van Breda triple murder trial begins Twenty-two-year-old Van Breda is accused of murdering his mother, father and brother in their upmarket home in the de Zalze Estate outside Stellenbosch in January 2015. His sister, Marli, who was 16 years old at the time of the attack, survived with severe brain injuries and memory loss. Van Breda turned himself over to police almost eighteen months after the killings. He was released on R100,000 bail. On Monday, Judge Desai said he had given Media24’s application “very careful consideration”. He said the applicant would be allowed to take still photos and video fifteen minutes before court every day and after the adjournment of proceedings. During court sittings, he ruled that two video cameras may be set up and “record with guidelines”. They may not be attended, must be stationary and on tripods so that there was as “little intrusion as possible”. He ordered that none of the arrangements may pertain to Marli van Breda, “even if she is a spectator”. Desai also ruled that no exhibits may be filmed or photographed. Van Breda’s defence attorney, Pieter Botha, requested an adjournment to receive instructions from his client on their position. Senior State prosecutor Susan Galloway agreed to the adjournment and was also expected to oppose the order. Court proceedings were expected to resume at 11.30am. The criminal trial is expected to start at 2.15pm. Van Breda faces three counts of murder, one of attempted murder, as well as defeating the ends of justice. !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+"://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs"); African News Agency