JOHANNESBURG - Bafana Bafana s recent results of a 3-1 win against Guinea-Bissau and a goalless draw with Angola showed us frailties in the side. But we also saw significant positives, albeit against modest opposition. The games were testament that we have talented players that have what it takes to play quality football.There is a growing number of talented young players coming through the ranks, both locally and internationally. This undoubtedly proposes an enticing prospect for the national team.More and more youngsters are finding themselves plying their trades internationally. There is at least one player in every continent of the world. There are still many improvements to be made in South African football development but credit should be give where due.READ: Teenage Mahlambi eyeing Bafana debutWe are undoubtedly witnessing is a slight incline to the number of players South Africa has produced that are capable of plying their trade overseas compared to recent years. Home-grown players can be found in leagues in England, Brazil, USA, Sweden, Belgium and a host of other nations.To fully realise this vision local clubs have an imperative part to play. Particularly at the developmental phases. Clubs such as Bidvest Wits, SuperSport United and Ajax Cape Town have done their bit in giving us some of the best South African talents.Mamelodi Sundowns have come to the fore, dominating not only at senior level but at junior level too. The reserve team just won the Multi-Choice Diski Challenge as well as the MDC International Challenge in Holland last week.Clubs and Safa need to continue to lay the ground work so longing fans can keep enjoying the likes of more players like Percy Tau, Phakamani Mahlambi and Keagan Dolly coming through.READ: Bafana boss set to be named next weekThere is considerable progress in terms of quality, but now coaches, administrators and even supporters are urged to work hand-in-hand to realise the potential that these future stars possess for our nation.Should our exports and the national team continue to perform well on the international stage, doors will be opened into the top leagues, such as the lucrative English Premier League.The controversial return of Kamohelo Mokotjo was one of the main talking points heading into latest round of international fixture. His situation as many will know involved the uncertainty of his eligibility to represent his nation of birth, having recently gained Dutch citizenship through naturalisation, after being based in the Netherlands since 2009.Many were confused and even questioned his loyalty to the country as the process required him to denounce his status as a South African citizen. He was later able to re-apply for a South African passport and now enjoys dual-nationality.READ: SAFA remain mum on new coachBut why go through the trouble of getting a European passport? It may very well be to further his playing career in England after attracting interest over the past few years.The English Football Association has made it increasingly difficult for non-European Union citizens to gain a work-permit to play in their professional leagues. In a bid to rid the leagues of sub-standard international players various requirements apply particularly to the non-EU nationals.A big factor of being eligible to play in the Premier League for example, is how well a players national team is doing. A scoring system which will take various considerations including a Fifa International Rankings will apply and varies based on which country a player is from.READ: Radebe, McCarthy join SAFA in finding new Bafana coachAs a recognised citizen of the European Union these rules will no longer apply to Mokotjo and with Brexit not being implemented yet, he is free to move to a team in England or any other EU country on the basis of his Dutch passport. eNCA