JOHANNESBURG - Eight South African "born frees" are being recognised by Adidas in Berlin for forming a unique part of the "generation of creators" in a rapidly growing sub-culture known as athleisure.Born in the 90 s. redefined for today. adidas originals presents #EQT, featuring 8 born free originals from Johannesburg.@ChristianImraan pic.twitter.com/9WRcAHVDcnFrom the streets of Berlin to the streets of Joburg. @adidasZA EQT is about to do the most. pic.twitter.com/obFxT57NtHTwenty-seven years after the birth of its EQT sneaker in 1990, Adidas decided to adopt a concept that breaks the rhetoric of exclusivity dominating the cultural scene and shifts the focus from individual to people.These people being the so-called born frees, the first generation of South Africans born after the end of apartheid in 1994. Courage. Fighting to change what was previously accepted. Zoliswa Mbadu, 21, Fashion Design Student. Past redefines future. Revealing #EQT pic.twitter.com/loExYY9j6GThe brand set up multiple street studio locations around Johannesburg. Their first installation was Shelflife in Rosebank, followed by Area3 in Braamfontein and the Adidas Original store in Sandton, and then Thesis lifestyle in Soweto.The result of these street studio s was a photo essay showing the evolution of born frees in a digital era.Capturing the images was 24-year-old photographer and digital artist Aart Verrips, who has worked for the likes of Vogue Italia and shot a catalogue for local fashion designer Rich Mnisi s SS/17 Collection.Sam Turpin is a Johannesburg-based musician and influencer who was born in the 90 . His grip on the digital semiosphere is one of the many reasons Adidas chose him to resurrect its EQT collection. Culture. No one should feel like they don't belong. Sam Turpin, 22, Rapper & Producer. The best of yesterday, the best of Originals today pic.twitter.com/PvOcVpYXhBTurpin plays a pivotal role in transforming the culture with his hip-hop-inspired music and sense of style. The kids who were actually born in the 90s grew up with the internet, by default we have a platform to get our ideas out there. says Turpin.- Contributor Khumo PulumoeNCA