PRETORIA - The High Court in Pretoria on Wednesday reserved judgement in the application for a declaratory order filed by Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan against the Gupta-owned Oakbay Investments.After two consecutive days of lengthy arguments, Gauteng Division Judge President Dunstan Mlambo, on behalf of a full bench, said the court s decision will be known soon.WATCH: Gupta banking saga continuesGupta companies are accusing Gordhan, of using his office to wage war on the family.Their allegations of collusion against Gordhan, and the banks, have been struck out as evidence.But that didn't stop the advocate for the Gupta's Sahara Computers company, from arguing that the minister hadn't come to court to seek legal clarity about whether or not he could intervene in the family's fight with South Africa's banks.Their lawyers suggest Gordhan went to court to air the Gupta companies dirty laundry, and protect South Africa's banks from scrutiny.READ: Guptas say they are victimsMinister Gordhan wants the North Gauteng High Court to order he cannot intervene in the family s battle with the banks, which cut ties with the Guptas after the shock axing of then-Finance Minister, Nhlanhla Nene.Oakbay Investments told the court that there was no need for Gordhan to seek the declaratory order relating to the Gupta-owned entity s wrangle with South Africa s major banks. The Supreme Court of Appeal held that even a court does not have the power or obligation to interfere in the private relationship between a banker and its client. It really is remarkable that the minister seeks affirmation by this court of a decision that he took, that is he was not empowered to intervene. That is the thrust of our argument, Advocate Cedric Puckrin, for Oakbay Investments argued in court.Puckrin argued that counsel for Nedbank, Advocate Alfred Cockrell, had incorrectly told the court that there was an alive dispute at the time Gordhan made the court application. Long before then, the legal position [that Gordhan cannot lawfully intervene] had been accepted. Secondly, there was no letter of demand. There was absolutely no indication that the minister was suddenly going to bring this application in order to allow Oakbay to consider its situation, said Puckrin.READ: Presidency explains Zuma involvement in Gupta court matterThe Gupta's Oakbay Investments argues the application, if granted, will not impact on future finance ministers."We say he's used his office and used state resources to advance whatever one wants to determine it is: To continue the warfare against the Guptas, to ensure the banks' conduct are not subject to scrutiny, said Sahara Computers Advocate, Rafik Bhana. Judge President Dunstan Mlambo responded by saying: "So warfare against the Guptas is part of your argument. And you have factual material in your client's affidavits?"Bhana's response was: "When you ask a question on why we are here: The answer is: The minister had something else in mind in this application."Advocate Jeremy Gauntlett, for Gordhan, has argued that Sahara has failed to provide any evidence under oath to back these claims.He says the allegations are scurrilous, and suggests the court punishes Sahara with a cost order.Earlier, Bhana had argued that the Gupta-owned companies had written to the Minister seeking, but not expecting or demanding, his help. It s a cry from the heart, it s a cry for help from the minister in whatever capacity he can give it," Bhana said."To say to the minister: 'Assist us by intervening: Tell the banks to open our accounts. IS that the assistance they seek?" enquired Mlambo."Well M'lord they ask for any assistance," Bhana responded.The banks, which cut ties with the Gupta companies, stress that it would have been legally impermissible for Gordhan to intervene in their decisions. They question whether these companies actually understand this. "They seem to have it in mind that the threshold for involving the minister is that as long as you aren't asking the minister to get involved, himself, in some sort of corruption, then its permissable to make these approaches. But it simply isn't," said ABSA Advocate, David Unterhalter.Advocate Vincent Maleka, for Standard Bank, told the court that Oakbay Investments wanted Gordhan to intervene illegally in its dispute with top South African banks.READ: Gupta entity wanted Gordhan s 'unlawful' interventionMaleka said when the dispute arose between Oakbay Investments and the banks, the Gupta-owned entity s preferred method of settling the row was unlawful seeking a member of the national executive to intervene.He described the dispute as a private relationship between the banks and their client. He said South Africa had competition watchdogs that would have been the port of call if the financial institutions were acting unlawfully.Standard Bank indicated on Wednesday that it is seeking an order that would bar members of the executive Cabinet ministers and the President from interference in the bank/client relationships.Oakbay Investments issued a statement on Wednesday, stating that it was not withdrawing from the ongoing court wrangle. We will continue to argue in court for this unnecessary application, which is a waste of taxpayers money and the court s time, to be dismissed. As the architect of the application and the campaign to smear Oakbay. If anyone is to withdraw it must be the minister, read part of the Oakbay statement issued by acting chief executive Ronica Ragavan. -- Additional reporting: African News Agency*eNCA reporter Karyn Maughan gives a wrap of today's proceedings:Tweets about #GordhanGupta OR #PravinGordhan AND (FROM:@karynmaughan since:2017-03-29 until:2017-03-30) African News Agency