CAPE TOWN - Audi has a winner in its hands, that much is true. The new Q2 baby SUV has pretty much everything one would ask for of such a vehicle. Everything but one, and we ll come to that later. For now just know that this car will be on the 2017 list of Best Cars or Cars of the Year etc etc. Yes, it is that good. And luckily South Africans are now able to buy or order one from their nearest Audi dealership.I ve had a thing for this car ever since it was first revealed at the 2016 Geneva International Motor Show. Audi has been building some of the best premium cars in the world over the past 15 years or so, but their designs have progressively regressed. The Q2 is definitely one of their standout products in terms of looks.The front grille is completely new and different from say, big brother Q7. It s still the chrome-framed single frame octagonal Audi grille but interpreted differently and highly updated. Those headlights are sharp and can be had in LED technology. Probably the most outstanding design attribute of the side view is the concave blade that runs on the shoulder. It really is top class stuff. Second to that and probably a good talking point for the average buyer will be the C-pillar, which can come in a different colour. Speaking of colour, Audi is offering 12 exterior colours, and I have to say, choosing the white, grey or the black would be a total waste of potential.The Q2 measures 4.19 metres in length, 1.79m wide, 1.5m tall, and crucially has a 2.6m long wheelbase. That makes it about as spacious as the bigger Q3. Very interesting this. Q2 of course runs on the new current MQB platform, which makes it lighter, more agile and more versatile than the Q3. Being an Audi, front-wheel-drive is standard, and while there are quattro models overseas, Audi SA has not introduced any of them here. Yet.I spent quite a bit of time behind the wheel of the Q2, as well as being a passenger. The interior is pretty solid, as expected. Buttons are now at a minimum, thanks to the new MMI and Virtual Cockpit. Tactile feel and perceived quality are par for the course, with Audi touches evident in places like the retractable 31.2cm screen on top of the dashboard. We drove models kitted with a flat-bottomed steering wheel and a start/ stop button, just for that extra verve. There is a high degree of personalisation available through the many choices one can go for as well.At launch Audi is only availing one engine, with another two slated for May or so. The first couple are the 1.0-litre TFSI and the 1.4-litre TFSI petrols, while the third is a 2.0-litre TDI worth 105kW and 350Nm. TDI will only be sold with S tronic automatic, no manual. That 1.0-litre produces 85kW and 200Nm of torque to represent the entry-level Q Audi in the country. It is said to return 5.1 litres per 100km of fuel and can be ordered in 6-speed manual or S tronic transmission. Sadly I did not get to pilot this one.What I did drive was the 1.4 TFSI with a good whack of power to the tune of 110kW and 250Nm of torque. While both manual and S tronic are available, I found it hard to choose between the two. Yes I m normally the automatic advocate because I live in Johannesburg, land of the traffic jam and burnt clutches. But I found this 6-speed manual so engaging, so easy to drive, that I was tempted to pick it as my favourite. Yet, after sampling the S tronic I remembered just how good this double-clutch box is and why it works so well in Gauteng. Anyway, buyers will choose according to their needs and pockets.With plenty of road to cover, the Q2 covered itself in glory, thanks to a comfortable ride and those 17-inch wheels (there s a package that allows for 19-inch if you like). I was so impressed by the progressive steering feel and agreeable handling characteristics of the little SUV that I often forgot it was an SUV. At times it felt like a hatchback. The motor is of course powerful and able to tackle any hill or straight line thrown at it with ease.So the worst news for last then. Q2 is highly splendid and will comfortably take on its chief rival the MINI Countryman in any situation. The only thing is price tag. See I mentioned the Q3 on purpose earlier, because as the bigger brother you would expect it to be more expensive. Alas, the Q2 is actually pricier than the Q3. Audi SA s marketers will present several arguments for this, but in the end the customer will have to decide if he/ she wants a slightly bigger but noticeably older SUV, versus something harder on the wallet, completely new and decidedly prettier.Audi Q2 Prices1.0T FSI manual (R434,500)1.0T FSI S tronic (R 453,000)1.0T FSI Sport manual (R464,500)1.0T FSI Sport S tronic (R483,000)1.4T FSI Sport manual (R511,000)1.4T FSI Sport S tronic (R529,500)2.0 TDI Sport S tronic (R565,000) IN4RIDE