JOHANNESBURG - The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) and the Office of the Chief Justice are among 90 national and provincial government departments that owe R370-million to a company that provides them with vehicles.Unless they pay up promptly their petrol cards will be suspended.Details about the money owed to G-Fleet Management emerged when the Gauteng Roads and Transport Department briefed the provincial transport portfolio committee on Friday.G-Fleet is a trading entity of the Gauteng Department of Roads and Transport and is described on its website as a provider of vehicle leasing and fleet management services for the public sector in SA . It operates a fleet of about 7 000 vehicles across the country.G-Fleet s acting CEO, Noxolo Maninjwa, revealed to committee members that letters of demand had been sent to some departments asking them to settle their bills before 20 March.The Gauteng Department of Health owed more than R109-million as of 28 February, while the Office of the Chief Justice owed R71-million. The Department of Home Affairs also owed R71-million Gauteng s Department of Infrastructure and Development R12-million and the NPA R11-million according to the debtors list. We ve been in constant discussion with the service provider managing the fuel cards for us and said if a [client] has not paid us for more than 60 days which is beyond the 30-day period [can t we] begin to terminate or suspend the services we are providing? said Maninjwa. Where we render a service [we] should expect to be paid within 30 days of invoicing that particular client. Now that has not been happening. He said the failure to settle the accounts would lead to a suspension of fuel-card services . Departments would be billed for re-activating fuel cards.However some departments have disputed how much they owe, saying payments have been made to reduce their debts. The Office of the Chief Justice told TMG Digital that its R71-million debt had been partially settled and the full amount would be paid by the end of March. According to our records, the outstanding amount is R26 399 256. The invoice ... will be verified and settled before 31 March 2017 said spokesman Nathi Mncube. He was confident that petrol cards would not be suspended.The NPA s Luvuyo Mfaku said: The NPA s account with G-Fleet is up to date as from 8 March 2017. Gauteng Health Department spokesman Prince Hamnca said in a text message: According to our records the department is owing G-Fleet an amount of R74-million for use of vehicles, including fuel. The department has issued a payment plan to G-Fleet to settle the amount owed to them over a two-month period with effect from April 2017. Home Affairs spokesman Mayihlome Tshwete said the department owed far less. Our records indicate that the Department of Home Affairs owes G-Fleet only R38-million and the debt is for prior years when we decentralised functions to provinces. According to our records for the current financial year we are up to date he said. In certain instances there are cars that were written off in accidents and G-Fleet has not taken them off their records and they are still charging the department. The Gauteng Department of Infrastructure and Development s spokesman, Theo Nkonki, had not answered e-mailed questions sent on Friday.iNet Bridge