JOHANNESBURG The banking industry says the axing of Pravin Gordhan as minister of finance and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas is not in the best interests of the country and the move is creating a vacuum of leadership.On Thursday night, President Jacob Zuma announced a cabinet reshuffle which saw nine minsters and six deputies being sacked from the national executive of government.The Banking Association of South Africa (BASA) said that the cabinet reshuffle is of extreme concern for the whole of South Africa.BASA further said Zuma s actions have put the country into turmoil at a time it is trying to come together to address the problems it faces.READ: List of new ministers 'came from somewhere else': MantasheBASA has further questioned the motives behind this action. The specific change in both Finance Minister and Deputy Finance Minister creates a dire loss of institutional knowledge and raises legitimate and alarming concerns regarding issues of fiscal discipline, protection of institutions, BASA said in a statement. BASA (sic) has previously voiced its deep concerns regarding the actions of the president. These have unfortunately fallen on deaf ears. BASA objects again and in the strongest possible terms. The President's actions directly undermine the significant progress made in the last 18 months towards building confidence in our country. These actions fly in the face of the imperative we all have to ensure political and policy certainty. The President's actions go further to place all South Africans at significant risk as a result of the fall out of any potential ratings downgrade. READ: SACP warns of looting at TreasuryBASA further stated that the position of finance minister is a critical one and an effective and credible National Treasury is also important. These institutions are pivotal to creation of certainty in markets and in management of potential risks introduced by numerous factors, BASA said. The action of removing a Minister and a Deputy-Minister who have gained global and national credibility and were performing optimally under difficult circumstances raises questions about the rationale for their removal. This further makes it difficult for their successors to conduct their responsibilities as well. In short, the President's actions have created increased uncertainty and risk. This is exacerbated by the fact that some Ministers who have performed very badly and publicity criticized have been retained. The association emphasised that any sovereign downgrade would have a serious impact on banks and the business sector in general.eNCA