JOHANNESBURG Orlando Pirates will be hoping to pick up three points when they host SuperSport United in the Absa Premiership on Tuesday night at Orlando Stadium with kick-off at 7.30pm.The Buccaneers are yet to taste victory under a new coach in Kjell Jonevret, but this match presents an opportunity to do so at home.However, they must also be cautious of another loss to the Tshwane side after a heavy defeat in the opening round.Pirates lost 6-1 away to Stuart Baxter s side and will now hope to inflict pain to avenge their heavy defeat in the league.However, with their 1-1 draw against Kaizer Chiefs in the Soweto derby last weekend, the hosts will be motivated for this clash.Looking at their previous two matches, they drew 2-2 against Cape Town City and also played to a 1-1 stalemate at home against Polokwane City.Jonevret s men occupy the 10th spot on the log table with 22 points from 19 rounds of league matches. Tonight we host SuperSport United at Orlando Stadium. Tickets are still available at Computicket outlets nationwide #OnceAlways pic.twitter.com/sGWkc0YHP8 But obviously we need to continue working hard we have another tough game coming up against SuperSport United, said Jonevret. We expect another tough match and we will have to be ready for whatever they will bring.READ: Who is new Orlando Pirates coach, Kjell Jonevret? We are well and truly in the business end of the season which means that we will not have any easy games. I am happy with how my players have responded to my philosophy and their way of working since arriving at the club. To the Nedbank Cup defending champions, United are aware that Pirates will be hoping to bounce back and avoid a humiliating defeat.Baxter s side is also fresh from a disappointing 0-0 draw at home to Ajax Cape Town last weekend and they will now chase a win.Challenging for the league title means SuperSport cannot afford to drop points as they will want keep up with the league race.They are placed at No 3 on the log table with 36 points from 19 matches.Apart from their draw against Ajax, they beat Maritzburg United 4-1 as well as bagging a 1-0 win over Highlands Park. Yes I managed to watch the whole match (Soweto derby) they got on top early and opened very well it is probably against the run of play that Chiefs scored said Baxter. Having failed to win they will be looking to do that against us and I am sure that it will be a good game. We have to bring our A game to the party or otherwise their desire to get back on track will overpower us. I just have to prepare the players as best as I can. We will do our best to make sure that we try to get something against them (Pirates) away from home. African News Agency