Editor's note: This article has been updated. The section 205 subpoena requires Moleketi to furnish the investigating officer with information by 13 September or appear before a magistrate on 20 September. JOHANNESBURG - Former deputy finance minister Jabu Moleketi has until 13 September to provide information on the alleged Sars intelligence unit. The unit is said to have been formed by Pravin Gordhan, when he was in charge of the South African Revenue Service (Sars). The Hawks want information about their role in establishing the Sars investigations unit, which was established in 2007 to investigate organised crime and illicit trading, and disbanded in 2015. (see the subpoena issued to Moleketi at bottom of the article). The Hawks have denied targeting Gordhan. Hawks Spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said, "I don’t know where this narrative is coming from. In fact, there was also talk yesterday that we are also proferring charges against him. Those are all lies. From the beginning, we said he is not a suspect in this matter." But political analyst Lesiba Teffo said Manuel and Moleketi are mere scapegoats. "The ultimate target is Gordhan," said Teffo. "They are making a martyr out of Gordhan. He has done a good job, but I suspect since he was fired his political capacity has appreciated a lot across the political spectrum, across the colour line. "I put him now on a pedestal where he would find himself with the likes of Makhosi Khoza, Thuli Madonsela and so on. "And the more you pursue them the more the  people begin to say, indeed, it is not about national interest but it is about factional interest. "Why factional interest? Because some argue (there is) one and one man only (that) we try to defend in the course of him destroying the country. "But let's wait and see. Six months down the line, South Africa might find itself on an appropriate trajectory where it begins to regroup and ensure the vision our forefathers had. The dream that we had in 1994... is not deferred, is not derailed." eNCA