RIO DE JANEIRO - Lady Gaga disappointed Brazilian fans Thursday with a last-hour announcement that she will not headline the Rock in Rio festival starting this weekend, saying she is sick. I was taken to the hospital its not simply hip pain or wear & tear from tour, I'm in severe pain. I'm in good hands w/ the very best doctors "Brazil, I'm devastated that I'm not well enough 2 come to Rock in Rio. I would do anything 4 u but I have to take care of my body right now," she tweeted."Promise I will come back and perform for you soon."The US superstar, who revealed Tuesday that she suffers from the chronic disease fibromyalgia, had been due to open the festival on Friday.A statement from Rock in Rio, which is to be staged in the barely used Olympic Park in Rio de Janeiro, said Lady Gaga "is undergoing treatment by medical specialists." Lady Gaga has officially cancelled her #RockInRio2017 performance due to severe body pains :( pic.twitter.com/qH25ERNLm8 "Rock in Rio regrets to announce the cancellation of her show," the statement said.The singer of hits like "Million Reasons" and "Perfect Illusion" had been due in Rio as part of her Joanne World Tour, which ends in December.Gaga had already announced that due to her disease, which causes chronic pain and fatigue, she was planning a break after the tour. In September she abruptly cancelled a concert in Montreal.Running for seven days in all -- Friday through Sunday and then September 21 to 24 -- Rock in Rio is being welcomed by the city as a chance to put the huge facilities built for the 2016 Olympic Games back in use. They have hosted only sporadic events since the Olympics ended in August of that year.Joining the lineup are rock veterans including Aerosmith, Bon Jovi, Guns N' Roses and The Who, as well as the more alternative bands Incubus and The Kills. Lady Gaga is a human being, not a robot that performs and performs. She's feeling sick and we understand it! #GetWellSoonGaga pic.twitter.com/6SSXNkTP4D Brazilian music lovers will be treated to the likes of legendary diva Elza Soares and rapper Rael. Adding to the star power will be supermodel Gisele Bundchen, who plans to use the occasion to campaign against the destruction of the Amazon rainforest.While Brazil is only starting to emerge from a painful recession, the 700,000 tickets to the event sold out months ago and city hotels are hoping to be nearly full, reversing a prolonged post-Olympic slump.AFP