JOHANNESBURG The governing party will soon deal with the leadership contest in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) in a bid to prevent the political fallout spilling over into the smooth running of government, ANC Treasurer-General Zweli Mkhize said on Thursday.This comes after the Pietermaritzburg High Court declared unlawful and void the 2015 conference which elected the ANC Provincial Executive Committee in KZN where former chairperson Senzo Mchunu was ousted and replaced with Sihle Zikalala.The court ruling, which came as a result of some branches challenging irregularities in the running of the conference, threw a spanner in the works for the upcoming 54th National Conference of the ANC in December where new leadership will be elected.#ZweliMkhize: Conference will sit. President is not seeking another term. We will have new leadership. #SEIFSAREAD: ANC KZN 'did not consult Luthuli House' about appealThe ANC in KZN has vowed to appeal the court ruling, despite the party s national executive committee not giving its blessing.#ZweliMkhize: We look looking forward to a process to conference where party is united #SEIFSAMkhize said it was a very critical issue to avoid disruption of the December conference as a result of leadership squabbles in provinces. We need to ensure that we get all the parties involved in the situation in KwaZulu-Natal and get our legal opinions in place to ensure that the decision that the NEC takes avoids any contamination of conference and electoral processes. Election of leadership should not be contaminated with the outcome of the court case, Mkhize said. In terms of the national conference, we will do everything to avoid disruption and to ensure credibility and impeccable processes that will lead to the election of leadership. We will not allow anything to stand in the way of a credible outcome of the conference and successful uniting conference, Mkhize added.#ZweliMkhize; ANC wants to resolve KZN court issue. Leadership will meet with kzn leaders to resolve #SEIFSAREAD: KZN ANC can't appeal before NEC advises - KodwaMkhize was speaking on the sidelines of the third annual South African Metals and Engineering Indaba in Sandton.He said the ANC needed to embark on a programme to re-educate its members on the values of the party and take corrective steps against the culprits who manipulate membership and branch processes, as well as those who dispense patronage. We need to correct the perceptions that public monies are used for private gain and then reignite growth. We need to embark on a whole programme of inviting as many members of the ANC that have kind of retreated because of various reasons to ensure that all the challenges at branch level around the membership manipulation and branch processes are corrected and that those who dispense patronage for their personal interest are corrected, Mkhize said. It is not going to be a once-off action. It s something that is going to involve rebuilding on values, political education, bringing back discipline, and ensuring that actions of those who are involved in corruption are acted upon so that our people can be convinced that the ANC is active on some of the things they have objected to. African News Agency