PIETERMARITZBURG – Both factions in the ANC KZN court case have urged members not to resort to violence following the court ruling that the province’s 2015 elective conference results are invalid. The KwaZulu-Natal High Court on Tuesday, declared that the 8th conference, which installed Sihle Zikalala as the provincial leader of the province, is invalid. WATCH: Court rules ANC KZN 2015 conference and its decisions unlawful Supporters of ousted leader, former premier Senzo Mchunu called for a re-run of the conference due to procedural irregularities. Spokesperson for the applicants who won the case, Sithembiso Mshengu, says they don’t believe they are under threat. “There is no need for anyone as a result of this outcome to pick up a gun and kill any other person.” Tensions within the ANC have been high in the province with a number political killings in the last two years. “We all have families, we have children that mustn’t live in fear that their parents might be taken away because of politics,” said Mshengu. “There is no reason for us to have bodyguards. We defeated Apartheid, we were arrested. We don’t fear anyone except God,” he said. Spokesperson for the ANC in KZN also called for calm. “Let’s all be dignified and comradely and do things that are befitting us.” Justice served Mshengu said they feel vindicated about the outcome of the court case. “It's a great feeling, we feel relieved. We knew the processes proceeding the conference were so bogus in such a way that the outcome itself was an illegitimate outcome.” “Today we’ve been exonerated by the court of a law so we’re really happy, especially as members of the ANC in KZN, we feel that justice has been served, said Mshengu. They have requested the ANC leadership in the province to evacuate office immediately “Our immediate expectation is that the national executive committee should order the comrades to vacate the office and place an interim structure that will oversee the processes of rebuilding of the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal,” said Mshengu. Plans to appeal The provincial leadership now has 15 days to lodge appeals against the ruling. However provincial spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntluli says even though they still need to study the judgment fully, they believe they have a strong case for an appeal. “We are convinced that a different court, higher than this one, may come to a different conclusion,” he said. Ntuli said the leadership will remain in place until they have completed their appeal. The status quo remains, we are the executive in place,” said Ntuli. eNCA