• Editor's note: This live event has ended. You may watch a recording above. JOHANNESBURG - The Constitutional Court is on Tuesday hearing opposition parties' bid to have President Jacob Zuma impeached and held accountable for lying to Parliament over the Nkandla debacle. Hearing tomorrow 10: Has the National Assembly failed to hold the President accountable for violations of the Constitution? (EFF v Speaker) pic.twitter.com/qJhO6ifly1 Economic Freedom Fighters spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said the EFF application that Parliament “must institute” impeachment proceedings against Zuma came after the ruling by the Constitutional Court that Zuma broke his oath of office. “After writing several times to the Speaker of the National Assembly that Zuma must be subjected to a disciplinary hearing to determine if his breach of the oath of office constitutes a “serious” violation of the Constitution, she refused,” Ndlozi said on Monday. READ: Thulasizwe Simelane's live reports from the ConCourt below “As a result, the EFF instituted an application to the Constitutional Court to determine that the Speaker of the National Assembly should have subjected Zuma to a disciplinary process for violating the Constitution as requested by the EFF.” The United Democratic Movement and the Congress of the People are supporting the application and the Democratic Alliance has applied to intervene in the case. Corruption Watch has been admitted as a friend of the court. The Speaker of the National Assembly opposes the application. In March last year,  the Constitutional Court delivered a damning ruling in which it stated that Zuma had failed to “uphold, defend and respect the Constitution” when he did not adhere to the remedial actions called for by former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela. READ: The Concourt's 11 Nkandla orders Madonsela issued a report three years ago in which she stated that the millions that went into upgrading Zuma’s Nkandla homestead had not all been rightfully used. Madonsela found that Zuma had derived undue benefit from the security upgrade that spiralled to a cost of more than R200-million and eventually included the addition of a swimming pool, cattle kraal and amphitheatre to Zuma’s home at taxpayers’ cost. Tweets about #CONCOURT AND (FROM:@ThulasSims since:2017-09-05 until:2017-09-06) !function(d,s,id){var js,fjs=d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0],p=/^http:/.test(d.location)?'http':'https';if(!d.getElementById(id)){js=d.createElement(s);js.id=id;js.src=p+"://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js";fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js,fjs);}}(document,"script","twitter-wjs"); African News Agency