JOHANNESBURG Manufacturing experts say there needs to be greater co-operation between the industry and the government.Industrial output data for the second quarter came in way below expectations.Some analysts say this signals a worrisome start for the second half of the year, with business confidence at its lowest in more than 30 years.READ: Manufacturing body believes sector can create jobsOverall manufacturing production fell for a third consecutive month, dropping by 1.4 percent year-on-year in the second quarter.Insiders say this is no surprise as manufacturing companies have faced severe headwinds in the past 12 months, with challenges both in terms of input costs and low domestic demand.Some companies have invested less in their operations. From the first quarter to the second quarter we saw a decline in terms of the acceleration of spending. Even though it is not a contraction. They are still spending, it is not as buoyant as we ve expected, said economist Xhanti Payi.READ: SA business confidence lowest in two decades: SA Chamber of CommerceManufacturing Circle, which represents various companies, said performance in the industry had been patchy and volatile, as can be seen by the positive agriculture results.The largest contribution came from food and beverages, areas in which there is opportunity for growth.Economist Tumisho Grater said: Manufacturing also saw some losses coming through, with employers really streamlining because they are currently operating in a difficult environment. Secondly, consumer confidence is very weak. The higher consumer confidence, [the more it] translates into more spending, which helps economic growth. The industry says there needs to be more engagement with the government to revitalise the sector.Nampak CEO and Manufacturing Circle chairman Andr de Ruyter said. It s important that industry and government collaborate, even more than what they had up to now. That will develop industrial policies that will unlock the potential of manufacturing to create a significant number of jobs."If you look at where manufacturing should be ... relative to our stage of development, it should contribute 30 percent to GDP at this point; we contribute less than 13 percent." A new agro-processing working group has been set up to monitor the implementation of new incentives for the agricultural sector, and to ensure that blockages in every link in the supply chain are identified and addressed.eNCA