CAPE TOWN South Africa s Kevin Anderson, regarded by pundits as a "dark horse", powered his way into the 2017 US Open quarterfinals with a 6-4 6-3 6-7 (4) 6-4 win over the gritty Italian Paolo Lorenzi at Flushing Meadows, New York City, on Sunday (Monday morning SA time). South Africa s Kevin Anderson through to the quarter finals at the #USOpen! What an incredible achievement! @KAndersonATP pic.twitter.com/jsJXtYIlNq It is the second time the 28th-seeded Anderson has reached the US Open quarterfinals. He also did so in 2015 after overpowering Andy Murray. This fourth-round win was marked by Anderson dropping serve and a set for the first time at the year s last Major although, in the end, it merely slowed down his march into the quarterfinal round.The unseeded Lorenzi won the toss and chose to be exposed to Anderson s well-known thundering serve at the start. The 31-year-old South African blew him away with three aces in the opening game without breaking into a sweat. This was very much routine for every one of Anderson s service games that followed. The 35-year-old Lorenzi was, however, able to stay in touch thanks to a raft of Anderson s unforced errors, mainly on return of the Italian s second serve.As the set wound on, Anderson was battling to find his range with his groundstrokes and as a result overshot the baseline several times. Kevin #Anderson vs Paolo #Lorenzi is about to start! Preview >>> https://t.co/jhES6MMvWS Watch & bet on tennis at https://t.co/YN1mLTnmW0 pic.twitter.com/fmyAtAihq8 The 10th game provided the turning point as Anderson broke Lorenzi who advanced his demise with a double fault. Anderson s 6-4 first-set win came after 35 minutes and seven aces.Anderson looked far more adventurous in the second set coming to the net when opportunity beckoned as he wrapped up a 6-3 win after 39 minutes on the back of a 91% first-serve success.In this set, there were signs that Anderson was doing better with return of serve and he stole a march on his opponent with a break in the 6th to go up 4-2 before signing off with a 6-3 margin to take a two-set lead.Towards the end of the second set Lorenzi s body language suggested he was fighting a losing cause.That might well have been the case, but as the third set played out, Lorenzi found a second wind and Anderson s hitherto stroll was reduced to a tenacious fight. The drama started in the sixth game when Anderson was rudely shocked by Lorenzi who went up 4-2 after breaking serve. Anderson managed to stay on course by breaking back in the next game and with the ensuing games going to serve the tie-break was needed to undo the 6-all stalemate.This time, however, Anderson s booming serve could not come to his rescue as the Italian dug deep to clinch the set 7-6 with a 7-4 tiebreak scoreline after a protracted 57-minute third-set triumph to force the tie into a fourth set.By this time, Lorenzi s confidence was sky high and Anderson battled to impose himself on the match and he double-faulted in the 6th game to hand Lorenzi the game, and was left trailing 4-2.Anderson again managed to break back in the next game although he made heavy weather of it with wayward shots but leading 4-3 his chances of a hard-fought victory remained on course.Lorenzi committed a string of unforced errors in his next service game which left him trailing 0-40 but incredibly he fought back brilliantly to win five points on the trot to hold serve for a 4-all score.Anderson only just managed to stave off Lorenzi s fightback in the next game and at 5-4 he needed to do something special in the next game to consign Lorenzi to the 2017 US Open all-rans scrapheap.And he did so emphatically as he toughed out a 40-0 margin in the next game to lift the fourth set 6-4 with a service break, and to sign off a 6-4 6-3 6-7 (4) 6-4 fourth-round triumph. African News Agency