DURBAN - Former finance minister Pravin Gordhan received a standing ovation when he rose to speak at the Ahmed Kathrada Memorial in Durban on Sunday. Gordhan gets a standing ovation as he prepares to speak. #KathradaMemorial pic.twitter.com/krW7yE0zhN Gordhan said divisions within the party were eroding its chances of winning the 2019 general elections.He said, "Our people must have a much better life then we have today."If we can t unite among ourselves, there s no hope for us in 2019, remember that. We can carry on squabbling among ourselves, we will lose the confidence of people from all walks of lives. From all over South Africa. We don t want to. We want to remain in government so that we can change South Africa."Gordhan said the governing party should focus on youth development like Ahmed Kathrada would have wanted. Gordhan asks the crowd to settle as they chant "Zuma!" #KathradaMemorial pic.twitter.com/fbV22UfJ5a "What we also want is an ANC that comrade Kathrada would say commits itself at least for the next twenty years, as our government is beginning to do and has been doing, to make sure that young people have a very different life than the one they have now."Young people must have jobs, proper training, business opportunities and make sure they grow into the economy of this country."And if we don't work together we wont accomplish what Kathrada and his generation have wanted for the country."Gordhan's address was repeatedly disrupted by ANCYL members. Gordhan's speech is interrupted. Zikalala steps in. #KathradaMemorial pic.twitter.com/Nf4lKlekNm He appealed to them to let him speak as he called for principled unity within the party. "Comrades let's hear each other, it's my turn to talk, it's your turn to listen for now," he said. ANCYL showing its support for the recent cabinet reshuffle through posters while Gordhan speaks. #KathradaMemorial pic.twitter.com/ZXC5ptXzzW Gordhan also commented indirectly on corruption in the party."A few of us or any group of us can make a deal today. So of you will pass on a nice bag of money. We all share the money and we now say we have unity," he said. Gordhan: "Unity is not based on money, not based on brown bags. #KathradaMemorial pic.twitter.com/BUJvNp2kV9 "We re not going to fight because we have a little bit of money. That s not unity, unity can t be based on money.Unity can t be based on these brown bags that are moving out all over. That is not Comrade Kathrada s ANC."Gordhan downplayed the disruption outside the venue After the memorial had concluded. Who knows who disrupted whom, everybody got disrupted, it s not just me, am I right? Even the TG got disrupted. That s very poor discipline on the part of the ANC members, so we ve got to get this right. That s not Kathrada s ANC, he said. Gordhan says ANC's "ill-discipline" needs to be dealt with. #KathradaMemorial pic.twitter.com/nVTTPeYi19 eNCA