JOHANNESBURG - Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town Thabo Makgoba has called on South Africans to turn the crisis created by what he calls a deeply corrupt regime into an opportunity.In his Easter vigil sermon at St George's Cathedral on Saturday night, Makgoba said: "Let us turn this moment of crisis into a moment of opportunity and convene a land Codesa to negotiate a solution to this emotional issue and, in the light of the downgrades of our credit ratings, an economic Codesa too.''Codesa, the Convention for a Democratic South Africa, was a series of multiparty negotiations that led to the dismantling of apartheid and the ushering in of democracy.Makgoba criticised some of the country's leaders, saying they had become slaves to a new form of colonial oppression. "It is a moral and economic oppression that manifests itself in the form of one family's capture of our country, and a president whose integrity, soul and heart have been compromised.READ: Zuma reshuffle 'an assault on the poor': Archbishop Makgoba"Like many, I feel that the dream of South Africa sometimes feels more like a nightmare, a prolonged Passiontide, so to speak. Personal interests, corruption, private gain, entitlement, a vicious contempt for the poor and the common good, a culture of blatant lies and cronyism and possibly worse dominate our public landscape. Huge respect for the Archbishop Makgoba who has asked people to stand up to corruption!!! it feels like the 80's#StateCapture #zumamustgo "This past week, the nightmare got worse as the full impact of the president's recent actions unfolded. They have devastated our hopes for the kind of foreign investment which we desperately need to grow our economy and create new jobs."Makgoba said the country must cast its eye beyond ousting the president and prepare itself for what might happen if he was no longer in office."The promise of Easter can be likened to what I call the new struggle in South Africa. In that struggle, the realisation of the promise of Easter is measured not only by how soon we replace the current administration, but by how well we ready ourselves for what comes next." "Neutralityhelps the oppressor, never the victim" Archbishop MakgobaMakgoba appealed to politicians to reflect on the past few months and consider the consequences of their actions. "To all politicians Mr President, honourable members of Parliament, Madam Premier we appeal to all of you to rise above your petty everyday squabbles and obsessions and to recognise this as a turning point in our history. My father once gave me a very important lesson: You can, he said, if you think you can. It's just a matter of removing the apostrophe and the t from can't. "Archbishop Makgoba said that it was time for South Africans to take sides and stand up for what was right."Ordinary South Africans have called to their leaders, just as Jesus did to Lazarus: Come out! Come out of the tomb!"To those who are economically, socially and morally deaf; to those who ignore the crisis of distrust that has cast the longest and darkest shadow our great country has ever seen in the democratic era, ordinary South Africans have said: Don t stay in places that will pull us all into a culture that wounds or kills us. Don't be overtaken by the culture into which our president and some of our elected officials have descended. Don't ignore the pleas, cries and profound sense of pain and suffering that plague our wonderful and beautiful nation." eNCA