JOHANNESBURG - Uhuru Peak took my breath away. Literally.I struggled to breathe up there; each lung-busting step taking what felt like an eternity.That was June 2012. I reached the summit after filling a plastic bag with vomit. Incredibly, it was so cold, the vomit froze outside my tent. Make no mistake, Kilimanjaro is a tough taskmaster, and frozen vomit is just the tip of the iceberg. But the pain pays off. Uhuru means freedom in Swahili, and that s exactly what you get on this mountain.You re nearly 6,000 metres above sea level. The African continent lies at your feet. And for a moment, you are playing among the gods. There is nothing quite like it. But last week, I felt something similar. I was standing in Nelson Mandela s former office in Houghton, Johannesburg.Madiba used the space after serving as president for five years. It s neat and orderly, comfy and plush, but as I look around, I feel a massive surge of adrenaline.I can almost hear Mandela s voice - that deep, steady timbre reverberating through the room. I hear that same voice the next morning, but this time, I m in the middle of nowhere. The Trek4Mandela team is training near Cathkin Peak in the Drakensberg.I trudge up the trail; hungry, sweaty and tired. The brooding block of stone looms large on the Berg horizon, indifferent to my pain.And then, a whisper from Tata I would not and could not give myself up to despair. That way lies defeat and death. Mandela struggled for the dignity of each and every South African, even when he lost his freedom. This team of climbers will follow in his footsteps, raising money for girls in poor communities. It s a noble gesture, but it s risky. Racing driver Gugu Zulu died on the last Kilimanjaro expedition.He leaves behind wife Letshego, and his little girl Lelethu.Take time to smell the flowers along the way, cherish your moments, your family & friends and be thankful for the things you have attracted into your life.A post shared by Letshego Zulu (@letshegozulu) onThe #NappyDash finish line interview Maybe next year I'll get some kind of response --A post shared by Letshego Zulu (@letshegozulu) onThat trip will always be remembered for Zulu s death, but these climbers are hoping to build on his legacy. Queen Mohale says the tragedy inspired her to sign up this year.She ll run the Comrades Marathon in June, then climb Kili a month later."We must go on and make it even bigger, says Mohale. Gugu gave himself to this cause. We can honour him by pushing forward." Another climber is taking fundraising to new heights. Chris Dippenaar is hoping to carry his bike up Kilimanjaro.Dippenaar says he ll cycle down the mountain, once he reaches the summit. My bike weighs about 16 kilogrammes, says Dippenaar, but I want to show people that anything is possible if you persevere. He s already training like a demon - climbing Table Mountain last week, with his trusty wheels on his back. A bicycle sounds like a good idea, a few hours into our hike. My feet are sore. My shoulders are aching.And we re barely halfway.It s not easy, but it s worth it. I start thinking about summit night, as we hit the road and drive back to Johannesburg.God willing, we ll reach Uhuru Peak on the 18th of July. That s the day Madiba was born. The day Gugu Zulu died.Both men fought for South Africa s future. Now others will step in, embarking on their long walk to freedom.Track Michael s journey: Twitter: @MikeMarillier Instagram: mikemarillier eNCA