JOHANNESBURG - South Africa s golden boy Wayde Van Niekerk has been honoured with Order of the Ikhamanga for that run and his overall contribution to sports.He is one of the recipients of a national order, bestowed by President Jacob Zuma on outstanding South Africans in Pretoria on Friday.Champion South Africaall recipients of today's #NationalOrders your commitment to nation building helps #BuildChampionSouthAfrica ---- pic.twitter.com/OUatUVLXCe All these men and women have lived up to plateaus that he who wishes to serve his country must have not only the power to think but the will to act and they acted, Zuma said.Honoured for his service in the struggle against apartheid was 85-year-old photographer Peter Magubane.He is the man who captured the dying moments of Hector Peterson in 1976.Honoured with the Order of Luthuli in Silver, Magubane says his lack of fear drove him. I used my camera as my protection. As I've said the racist government tried their level best to kill me and stop me from taking pictures of my people and pictures of my country but I refused to be told what to do. These are some of the #NationalOrders that will bestowed today by President Jacob Zuma. pic.twitter.com/Mevd7JbIDWThe country s lightweight rowing team of James Thompson, Matthew Brittain, John Smith and Lawrence Ndlovu, who bagged gold in the 2012 London Olympics, got the nod. It s absolutely awesome to be recognised this way. I think it's great for SA sport and South Africa in general," said Brittain. "We are so inspired to come back to back to see all the people and how they got behind us and what our victory meant."WATCH: Order of Ikhamanga recipients and gold medalists Matthew Brittain and Sizwe Lawrence Ndlovu #NationalOrders pic.twitter.com/LvlmprLpU3Siya Xuza, an energy engineering expert after whom a planet is named. A rocket scientist! There's an asteroid named after him already - Siyaxusa. https://t.co/6OHPKBfzzAHe said his success had started in "a kitchen when I was experimenting with rocket fuels and wanting to reach for the stars"."TodayI stand here in humility having a star or planet. So I say to the very young South Africans: Anyone who's feeling sometimes a bit discouraged, reach for your Jupiter, reach for your stars reach for your planet and collectively we will have a very bright continent."WATCH:One of the youngest individuals to receive the Order of Mapungubwe Prof Fulufhelo Nelwamondo speaks to us #NationalOrders pic.twitter.com/nOCQnew1p8eNCA