Barring a few misspent years (OK, in all honesty a misspent decade or two) between finishing school and my mid 30 s, I ve ridden bikes most of my life.I ve loved riding bikes from the moment I first balanced on my own (that time my dad let go of the seatpost and I rode free, on my own in the shopping centre parking lot in Pinetown, circa 1980).Every aspect of what those two wheels represents. The obligatory health & fitness, the ability to reach and achieve personal goals, the me time and associated headspace, the idea of pushing boundaries and mostly that freedom and independence of feeling like a kid again.Yes. All of the above.READ: Riding for a future without tuberculosisI only, however, started taking mountain biking seriously around six years ago, starting to ride The (Braamfontein) Spruit , Northern Farm and Breedt s Nek as entry level testers.The entering of various local races every couple of weeks clinched the deal. I was hooked.I eventually moved on to stage races like Mankele 3 Towers and Sani2c, with the rides infusing my passion and allowing me to travel our beautiful country, meet new people and just experience it all. It rapidly became a healthy drug, craving and integral part of Me .On the 28th March 2016, a day that is firmly entrenched within me, I lost my mom. It was the culmination of a heartbreaking journey over a couple of years.Her battling a TB related illness and us, her family, watching from the sidelines. Her death was ironically not only devastating for me, but unleashed a strength within me I had not previously seen. That strength manifested itself into various areas in my life including my much loved time in the saddle.READ: How mapping ancestral genes could help the fight against TBIt was pertinent then that along the way in my growing passion and through various races and general growth within the cycling community, I started to hear riders talking about what seemed a far fetched idea of a race called joBerg2c .It was distant, and almost impossible, I mean, who in their right mind sits on a hard-ass bike saddle for 9 days/900km riding from Gauteng to Scottburgh!?Strangely enough, Old Mutual joBerg2c rapidly became a bucket list event for me, and after my mom died, in the November 2016, I made a giant mental shift from maybe one day to I m going to do this .I didn t have an entry and couldn t really afford it either, but had made up my mind that I was going to do it, and do it for a cause.Fast forward a few months, sweat, hard work, bike set ups, research and preparation here we are, writing a blog post for eNCA, having raised over R40 000 to date, a mere week + from me mounting a bike and starting what I can only hope will be a wonderful 9 day journey. Surreal. Daunting. Wonderful. Terrifying. Grateful.The race itself, if you are to enjoy it and achieve your own personal best (I fail to see the point otherwise) required a few check list items. Training is at the top. I started proper base training in December 2016, riding almost every day while on my annual leave. Starting with my usual distances of 50/60km per ride, within four 4 weeks I had worked up to 150km (mostly on the road). Spinning and Hotpod Yoga completed the regime.READ: TB still leading cause of death: StatsSAIn January, searching for the experiential training I felt I was lacking, I joined Northcliff Cycles Wattbike studio and took up a challenge from the instructor that double sessions are hardcore and will put hairs on your chest psshhh I said, whatever, I did as many doubles as I could because I m stubborn and driven like that!! In the space of five / six weeks I felt a vast improvement in my power and endurance, suddenly finishing races at the upper end of the scale.Where I m normally a B or C batch starter in the bigger races (Ashburton National MTB Series for example ), I found myself starting in A.Where 70km races were a bit of a stretch, I ve now found myself being able to hold my own beyond 80, 90 even 100km. Training was paying off. The ultimate destination was more reachable.Another check list item for me was the endurance and navigation side. For this one of the things I did was enter the Bielie Mielie Classic .I actually found my average speed increasing after the first 50km, going into the 2nd half of the race feeling and finishing strong with an average speed in excess of 21km/hr for the full 101km race. Hard work, dedication and focus were seeing result.A couple of tweaks to my bike, with a new set of carbon wheels, opting for a slightly wider tyre combination, and the replacement of a faulty front shock / fork, my race chariot has never been more ready for the task at hand.Now don t get me wrong. This all sounds great, like Im ready to be a pro athlete. I m fit and in the best physical and mental shape I ve ever been in my 42 years. I can hold my own with my skills on a trail and I m fortunate to have an incredible high end Pyga Stage bike that just makes it all so much more rewarding. But more than anything I have the best motivation and drive a person could ever have wished for on entering an endurance event such as this.The sole purpose to ride to honour the memory of my mother, and do it simultaneously raising funds and awareness for TB, and a charity close to my heart (OneVoice SA)So, a week plus and counting to start time. And in all honesty, although brave, driven and anticipating one of the best, hardest and most fulfilling journeys of my life, I m still silently crapping myself.I mean who at this stage of their lives, holding down a demanding full time job and raising three kids, sits on a hard-ass bike saddle for 9 days/900km riding from Gauteng to Scottburgh!?Follow JoBurg2c mountain mike race entry Kevin Grenfell's journey on eNCA.com. But most importantly please log onto http://morethanyourself.co.za/fundraiser/kevin-grenfell/ to support the ride and give your support, no matter how big all small. eNCA