 DURBAN - ANC KZN Chairperson Sihle Zikalala called on ANC leaders to express their differences in the correct platforms, and not out in the open.Speaking at the Ahmed Kathrada Memorial in Durban on Sunday, Zikalala thanked Pravin Gordhan for attending event, before warning against 'using public platforms to ventilate our anger and our differences'.Zikalala was heckled by some members of the crowd when he said funerals and memorials should not be used as platforms for divergent views. To use these platforms to express views that are divergent to the ANC is not correct. It is against the culture of ubuntu. Zikalala said that those with views on the recent cabinet reshuffle in which Gordhan lost his job along with his respected deputy Mcebisi Jonas should take their opinions to their political parties.ANCYL members some visibly drunk whooped and cheered at Zikalala s words. Zikalala echoes Pres Zuma's recent comments about not using memorials and funerals to push political agendas. #KathradaMemorial pic.twitter.com/5AfSRW2oxD Speeches at the rally were repeatedly disrupted, and Zikalala attempted to call for calm during former finance minister Pravin Gordhan's time at the podium. Gordhan's speech is interrupted. Zikalala steps in. #KathradaMemorial pic.twitter.com/Nf4lKlekNm Before the memorial commenced, ANCYL members ripped down innocuous placards that had been stuck on the walls of the halls that read Take a stand. It s our future and Save our jobs, save our economy, save our future, save our nation .Youth league members held high placards in support of Zuma and the controversial cabinet reshuffle throughout the event.Zikalala said all members of the ANC should be shown respect and allowed to speak. The ANC is a caring and democratic organisation. We have platforms in which to raise our views and emotions, he said. Zikalala condemns behaviour at #KathradaMemorial. pic.twitter.com/yyRX6kaUhu But members of the Active Citizens Movement, sitting in the front row of the audience, continued to heckle and shout down Zikalala, also calling for him to step down.*View the attached video for more of Zikalala's speech. -Additional reporting ANAeNCA