CAPE TOWN - Cape Town s Don Magic Man Madge pulled off a brilliant show and shockingly upset the crowd when he re-took the EFC Worldwide Lightweight title from Las Vegas Dave Mazany at GrandWest Grand Arena at EFC 58.That's a wrap for a cracking fight night. #EFC58 pic.twitter.com/5qFW9lgWdSThe night s main card began with a classic clash of youth versus experience when Cape Town s 23-year old Shaun De Lange took on Johannesburg s iconic Dino The Lion Bagattin.The two battled each other into the darkness of exhaustion and beyond, landing mean strikes peppered with clubbing elbows throughout all three rounds.#TheClinch: Former champion @HandsOfStoneMMA takes on action fighter and warhorse Shaun de Lange. #EFC58 pic.twitter.com/Qd56rOZih5The crowd gave the warriors a standing round of applause between all three rounds, and would not sit down until De Lange was finally awarded the win by split-decision.It was a brutal and unforgettable battle, with Bagattin fighting on after fracturing his shin, ending his evening at a local hospital.Don Madge faced Las Vegas-based and former title Lightweight champion Dave The Pain Train Mazany. Mazany s patience was tested in the cage in the beginning of round one. Mazany also being a well-rounded fighter, this was one of his toughest fights against the Magic Man.Don Madge focused throughout their fight. He played it out well as the underdog and stunned his opponent by clinching him against the fence several times and re re-entering the same clinch in the second round. This time, however, he went on to take Mazany s back and sink a solid rear naked choke.Mazany has now gifted Madge the belt that he last held three years ago.Supporting the main card was The Clash of the Titans, Irshaad Sayed vs Tumisang Madiba. #TheClinch: Two of the biggest personalities in African MMA - @IrshaadSayed vs @TumisangMadiba, Who's going to take the win? #EFC58 pic.twitter.com/lYUi6XZZprGrowing up in Cape Town, Irshaad has been a Cape Town favourite. Born and bred in Johannesburg, Tumisang Madiba entered the hexagon slinging body shots to Irshaad, putting him under intense pressure to deliver.Irshaad s delivery exceeded many expectations, with a brutal hook to the liver, followed by a double tap left hook to the jaw. The President was left seated in the centre of the cage. Weathered the storm and got the win early in round 2, can't wait to get back in there #EFC59 pic.twitter.com/s6Ti7XtgGWSayed asked for another shot at Demarte Pena with a fight in June, stating, "I want to stay active and lay down another win. That way no one can deny my right to Pena in December."With Ruan Potts' win against England's Karl Etherington, EFC heavyweight champion Andrew van Zyl is already scheduled to defend his title against undefeated rising star Wessel Wess Express Mostert on 8 July in Sun City.Potts will be watching with interest, hoping to face the winner.Fight of the Night was awarded to Dino Bagattin vs Shaun de Lange. Performance bonuses were awarded to Duane Jones, Irshaad Sayed and Tumisang Madiba.The official results EFC 58:- Faeez Jacobs defeated Jesse Fleming via TKO (punches) 3:02 in round 1.- Caleb Ridley defeated Kevin Pheko via submission (Triangle Choke) 1:28 in round 2.- Rodrique Kena defeated Duane Jones via submission (punches) in 4:30 round 2.- Aadam Grant defeated Claude Ntumba via submission (Rear-Naked Choke) 3:17 in round 1. - Gary Joshua defeated Jasen van der Merwe via submission (Guillotine Choke) 1:30 in round 1. - Deon Bruning defeated Regis Muyambo via TKO (Punches) 3:52 in round 2. - Shaun de Lange defeated Dino Bagattin via split decision. - Sylvester Chipfumbu defeated Abdul Hassan via TKO (Punches) 1:03 in round 2. - Ruan Potts defeated Karl Etherington via TKO (Punches) 2:33 in round 1. - Irshaad Sayed defeated Tumisang Madiba via TKO (Punches) 1:33 in round 2. - Don Madge defeated Dave Mazany via submission (Rear-Naked Choke) 2:02 in round 2. - Contributor Khumo PulumoeNCA