DURBAN - Golden Arrows progressed to the semi-finals of the Nedbank Cup with a 1-0 win over Platinum Stars at the Princess Magogo Stadium on Saturday afternoon. The Durban side also led 1-0 at halftime.In an entertaining cup game, in which both sides were committed to attack, it was a pity that one team had to lose. And unfortunately for Stars, they would emerge on the losing side of the closely-fought action.It was an opening half in which both teams looked to stamp their authority on the game. Stars got off to a quick start with an inviting opportunity inside the opening 15 minutes, but Arrows goalkeeper Nkosingiphile Gumede did extremely well to prevent his team from going behind.READ: Arrows strike true to knock 'Downs out of Nedbank CupFirst, he made the initial stop from Robert Ng ambi s effort and then, on the rebound, he saved again from Bongi Ntuli. Gerald Phiri also tried his luck from a free-kick, but he hoofed his shot off target.Not to be out-done, Arrows, too, had their moments and their best chance resulted in Knox Mutizwa s shot brilliantly saved by Stars goalkeeper Mbongeni Mzimela.With both teams going for it, a goal was always on the cards and it was Arrows who eventually broke the deadlock just before half-time. A corner was floated in and the Durban club s Musa Bilankulu headed in at the near post. Arrows were desperately unlucky not to increase their advantage moments later when Kudakwashi Mahachi s shot was blocked by Stars defender Siyabonga Zulu.At the start of the second half, Stars brought on Sibusiso Msomi in place of Kulegani Madondo. Arrows, though, had the first chance of the second period, but Mahachi skied his attempt over the bar. Stars, too, had an opportunity to level when Phiri s cross found Ndumiso Mabena, but the striker headed over.The visitors from Rustenburg then tried valiantly to grab an equalising goal, with coach Gavin Johnson going to his bench for some inspiration. Off went Phiri, on came Gift Links and, later, Henrico Botes replaced Ntuli. N Gambi had a great chance to score, but his shot was saved by Gumede.READ: Platinum Stars score extra-time winner against BarokaDespite Stars desperation, Arrows were always good value in attack and they could well have added to their lead, but Nkosinathi Mthiyane squandered a good chance in a game that see-sawed from end to end.Stars finished the stronger as they threw everything at Arrows in a quest to gain parity, but it wasn t to be and they crashed out of the competition.African News Agency