JOHANNESBURG City of Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba intends to lay criminal charges against ANC councillors who violently disrupted the Integrated Development Plan summit he hosted on Tuesday night in Midrand.Mashaba said the attack was led by ANC councillors in the City of Johannesburg and that the city was left with no option but to lay criminal charges against those who led the assault and fuelled violence. .@GautengANC @PaulMashatile . @GautengANC is hell-bent on preventing us from ensuring residents of CoJ get an opportunity to raise their concerns with their governmentThe City of Johannesburg has informed that charges will include damage to property and assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. Last night the ANC violently disrupted the Integrated Development Plan (IDP) summit I was hosting at Midrand High School, Mashaba said in a statement. A number of individuals were injured following the violence, including and EFF member who had a gash on his head, as well as the chairperson of Ward 112, Andrew Osmond, who was hit with a brick on the back of his head with such force that he was concussed and had to be taken to hospital. READ: EFF councillors exchange blows with Metro policeMashaba said that police would be provided with all relevant footage of the attack and we will ensure that those involved face criminal prosecution. It has become clear that the ANC in Johannesburg refuses to accept the democratic outcomes of last year s local government elections and has resorted to violence and intimidation to prevent the new administration from serving the residents of our City, Mashaba said. I condemn this disgraceful behaviour in the strongest terms and call on ANC provincial chairperson Paul Mashatile to intervene in this matter and bring an end to the despicable violence perpetrated by his members. The ANC Youth League regional task team in the Greater Johannesburg region condemned the spilling of blood at the IDP summit and blamed Mashaba for the violence.The league said in a statement that the City of Johannesburg under the Democratic Alliance administration was racist and uncaring towards the African majority.The ANCYL said it strongly condemns the spilling of blood that took place at an IDP meeting at Midrand, where the DA-led municipality with the help of EFF and JMPD [Johannesburg Metro Police Department] beat up the community of Region A". We as the ANC Youth League have long stated that this DA-led administration is racist ... and non-caring to the African majority in the City of Johannesburg, said the ANCYL. Mashaba was in attendance of the IDP and idly stood by while his goons viciously carried out an attack on our people. Chairs and bottled water were thrown at members of the community as they sought accountability from the city s leadership.The ANCYL said it would take JMPD officers to task for taking sides and not protecting residents. The ANC is the majority party in the Johannesburg Metro Council and that means people have faith in the movement, public participation can never be relegated to a few who bought political power because it belongs to the people. eNCA