JOHANNESBURG One of the most exciting rivalries will resume on Friday in Potchefstroom when LJ van Zyl and Cornel Fredericks battle it out to become the South African 400-hurdles champion at the ASA Senior Championships.The two athletes have been dominating the event over the last nine years with both Tuks-athletes winning the title on four occasions. Van Zyl was victorious in 2008, 2011 and 2015 and 2016 while Fredericks won in 2010 and 2012 through to 2014.Fredericks tops the local rankings so far this season with a best time of 49.27 seconds while Van Zyl s best time is 49.29.It is uncanny how similar their achievements over the years have been. In 2006 Van Zyl was the Commonwealth Champion, while Fredericks won the title in 2014. Last year Van Zyl finished third in the Diamond League standings. Fredericks did so in 2014.The 31-year-old Van Zyl has become sort of an institution at the various national age groups championships over the last 21 years. He remembers competing at his first championships way back in 1995 when he was nine years old. Since then he has missed out only once. It was in 1999 when he was playing rugby trials at Grey College.The Tuks-athlete won his first national title in 2005 beating the then-national record holder and hurdling legend, Llewellyn Herbert. He was also victorious in 2006.Van Zyl says he be as motivated as ever to reclaim the national title. I will admit there was a time when I was wondering why I bother competing at the South African Championships, said Van Zyl. At the time I was going through a really bad patch in my athletics career. It seemed as if everything that could go wrong did go wrong but the one thing I will never be is a quitter. I managed to work through my problems. To eventually win the title again in 2015 was special. This afternoon when I settle down in my blocks to hopefully race in the final I will be as hungry to win as I have been when raced at the national championships for the first time. Both Van Zyl and Fredericks made it clear it will be foolish for them to think it is going to be just about them in the final. There are quite a few talented young hurdlers who have come through the ranks. So it is definitely not just a case of pitching up expecting to win, said Fredericks.Le Roux Hamman who represented South Africa at last year s Olympic Games in Rio has the ability to spoil the two veterans fun. His best time so far this season is 49.37 and he has beaten Fredericks and Van Zyl.Hamman hopes to put in a good race despite not being the fastest athlete out of the blocks. I see myself more as an endurance hurdler meaning that I am only at top speed over the second half of the race, said Hamman.African News Agency