CAPE TOWN - Wayde van Niekerk (Kovsies) versus some of Tuks top sprinters is what this weekend s South African Universities Championships in Cape Town might boil down to.In what is somewhat a surprise it seems as if the 400m Olympic and World Champion has decided to compete over the weekend.Danie Cornelius (Tuks Athletics Manager) said Van Niekerk has been entered to race both the 100 and 200m.READ: Potch heats up with track and field champsIf Van Niekerk should compete it could lead to the first ever sub 10-second 100m race at sea level in South Africa. At the national championships in Potchefstroom, Van Niekerk finished second in the 100m and Roto was third. Both ran 10.04.Van Niekerk has a best time of 9.98 while Roto has run 9.95.It is safe to say that Gift Leotlela (Tuks) will relish another opportunity to race against Van Niekerk. So far in head to head clashes for the season the score is one all.Leotlela caused a major upset earlier in Bloemfontein when he outsprinted Van Niekerk to win the 100 metres. Unfortunately. the timing system did not work so nobody knows how fast exactly the Tuks-athlete might have run.The past weekend at the South African Championships Van Niekerk won the 200m in 19.90. Those who have been lucky enough to have seen the race said they were surprised by the way Van Niekerk slowed down over the last few metres.READ: Luvo Manyonga sets new African recordThey thought a new national record was on the cards but he obviously he chose not to go for it. This means Van Niekerk has definitely got a lot left in his tank.At the national championships in Potch, Leotlela finished third in the 200m final, running 20.20. It is exciting to note that in both of his last 200m races the Tuks-athlete set personal bests. At the South African Junior Championships, he won the 200m in 20.28.With a bit of luck and weather allowing Leotlela could improve on the South African Junior record 20.10 set by Clarence Munayi (TuksSport High School) earlier in the season.Rikenette Steenkamp will resume her battle with the ever fast ticking stopwatch when she settles in her blocks for the start of the 100m at the South African Universities Championships in Cape Town.The Tuks-athlete s quest for speed is a like a good athletics soapy . You know something is going to happen but you are never quite sure what exactly but you are seldom disappointed. It is getting to be a case that if you blink you might miss out seeing her making local athletics history.READ: Simbine talks up 100m final in PotchIn her last three meetings, she has run times of 13.02s (Gauteng North Championships), 13.04 (League Meeting) and 13.02 (SA Championships). She is officially the second fastest South African female athlete in the 100m hurdles.Corien Botha is the only women who ran a faster time of 12.94 in 1991 thus setting a new national record in Salamanca.African News Agency