 *Editor's note: This livestream has now ended. You may watch a recording above.If you have trouble viewing the video, please click here for an alternative.JOHANNESBURG - The newly-formed People's Movement held a rally at the Caledonian Stadium on Thursday.Religious leaders, civil society and political parties attended the event.Speakers included Mmusi Maimane, Mosiuoa Lekota, UDM, Prince Mashele among others. About 5,000 people were expected at the rally, which started at 10am.The action comes as the Democratic Alliance filed papers demanding that the President give reasons why he decided to reshuffle his cabinet. Freedom Movement Member Prince Mashele said, Our message is simple, that those who fought for our freedom wanted us to be politically free."They wanted the state to be used as an instrument of transformation and the development of all South Africans."We believe that that has been hijacked by a kleptocratic leadership led by Jacob Zuma, working with nefarious business interest such as the Guptas. We are saying today, we want to reclaim our freedom. From thieves who have hijacked our state, so that we redirect the state to where it is supposed to be. That is the crux of our message. It s not an anti-Zuma rally, it is a reclamation of the state and the power of the people rally. That is the essence of it. "We are saying today, we want to reclaim our freedom, from thieves who have hijacked our state, so that we redirect the state to where it is supposed to be," Mashele said."That is the crux of our message. It s not an anti-Zuma rally, it is a reclamation of the state and the power of the people rally. That is the essence of it. DA leader, Mmusi Maimane reiterated his party's call saying South Africans must unite to oust the President."Fellow South Africans I want to remind you as another South African reminded me, to say that when South Africans stood together, no government can stand against them."And what remains true is that 55 million of us are not going to be held ransom by one South African called Jacob Zuma."We the people will stand together to ensure that Jacob Zuma and his supporters are removed."UDM leader, Bantu Holomisa, highlighted the importance of civil society groups in bringing about regime changes."Fortunately we are blessed with civil society organisations that have emerged with the message: 'No, not under our watch.'"Truth be told, many didn't understand where the opposition parties were coming from when we started our campaign for Jacob Zuma to go, when it was clear that he was unsuited for the post of president," Holomisa said."As time has gone by, civil society has cottoned on to this critical mission and we are at last walking in the same direction. "Civil society is the conscience of a nation and should continue to play this role. Your mettle will be tested once this suspect president has left office. We expect you to stick to your guns for the good of South Africa and not to engage in a battle for the soul of the ruling party," Holomisa concluded.eNCA