PRETORIA The Tshwane Metro Police were called in to remove ANC councillors from the city's State of the Capital Address on Thursday.TMPD top brass intervening. That too isn't going according to plan. #SOCA2017 pic.twitter.com/HsGmkDv67kThe event descended into chaos when ANC councillors interrupted Mayor Solly Msimanga's speech.They continued demonstrating throughout Thursday morning.#SOCA2017 pic.twitter.com/q9UyijU2apFurniture used to stop police from removing ANC councillors. #SOCA17 pic.twitter.com/ypbbqcmzoAThe ANC councillors say they're aggrieved that Msimanga wanted to have his address on the same day Umkhonto we Sizwe Soldier Solomon Mahlangu died.Mahlangu was hanged by the apartheid government on 6 April 1979 in Pretoria.Msimanga remained adamant on Thursday afternoon that the State of the Capital Address would continue as scheduled.He has accused the ANC of cheap politicking coupled with their inability to accept the August 03 electoral defeat that informs their actions. (The) ANC Council disruption will not deter us from delivering the State of the Capital Address, Msimanga said. The ANC have completely undermined the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, the will of the people and the rule of law. This is symptomatic of an ANC in complete chaos as they continue to reach new lows. The reason behind their unruly and undemocratic behaviour is the demand that the Address be postponed. Members of the ANC responsible for this conduct will be dealt with appropriately pursuant to the rules of Council and the code of conduct, the mayor said.Msimanga added that the city will pay tribute to Mahlangu. The assertion by the ANC that this will desecrate the memory of Mr Mahlangu is bizarre. It s the ANC who seek to insult the memory of this great struggle hero who fought for our people to have a better life, Msimanga said.Today we pay homage to a young struggle hero, Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu and all that he did for the freedom of our people. pic.twitter.com/zhrQeHOI3eMsimanga tried to address ANC councillors on a personal level but an altercation ensued. WATCH: Msimanga personally addresses the ANC councillors, but it doesn't go down well. #SOCA2017 pic.twitter.com/8GsbS2Ka3FHe has accused the police of receiving instructions from Luthuli House on not to act.@sekero4 @CityTshwane problem is that SAPS seem to be getting instructions from Luthuli house to not act. pic.twitter.com/0DnkZfADf6Some workers at the Tshwane Events Centre and journalists were threatened with violence and were prevented from recording the chaos.ANC councillors are still not budging. They say it would be illegal for police to remove them, adamant #SONA2017 wont go ahead. pic.twitter.com/9Q0cO20wXO eNCA