JOHANNESBURG - A Gauteng man, Elvis Ramosebudi, appeared in the Johannesburg Magistrate s Court on Friday morning for allegedly planning a coup.The 33-year-old was charged with conspiracy to commit murder. The case was postponed in order to allow a legal aid lawyer to be appointed for the accused.Ramosebudi was arrested by the Hawks in Midrand on Wednesday for allegedly plotting to assassinate SA government officials perceived as beneficiaries of state capture, including cabinet ministers, members of state owned entities and prominent South Africans.He allegedly founded a group called the Anti-State Capture Death Squad Alliance. The suspect, a founder member of the Anti-State Capture Death Squad Alliance (ASCDSA), was arrested on the 26th April 2017 in Midrand while he was busy explaining to the donors how the assassination of state capture beneficiaries was going to be carried out by the undercover coup plot snipers, Mulaudzi said.READ: Hawks arrest man allegedly plotting assassination of prominent South AfricansInvestigators say the matter has been on their radar since last year.The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) said in October investigators intercepted communication of possible assassinations which were being planned. At least 19 individuals were to have been targeted in the alleged assassination plot, with snipers employed to carry out the killings.Hawks spokesman Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said the Hawks acted on the information they received and conducted undercover operations in both Pretoria and Johannesburg which lead to the arrest. The communication intercepted by the investigators included various letters which were sent to selected companies to donate money at a total amount of R140-million to fund the alleged clandestine operation. READ: Get the state capture report hereMulaudzi said that the names of the affected individuals would only be divulged in court. However, an ANN7 television news report on Thursday suggested that President Jacob Zuma s name was on the hit list along with the Guptas and former Eskom boss Brian Molefe. The Guptas, who are widely accused of having undue influence on Zuma, own ANN7.Mulaudzi said during the ongoing investigation another group, the Anti-White Monopoly Capitalists Regime (AWMCG) surfaced which necessitated a two-prong investigation. It was discovered that the AWMCG used the same operandi soliciting donations in order to assassinate senior government officials and other South African citizens. Four individuals were allegedly targeted for this operation, their names will also be revealed in court, Mulaudzi said.He said during a search at the accused s house evidentiary proof was found and confiscated. Hawks investigations revealed that there were other companies the accused solicited funds from using same modus operandi.The accused, who is now thought to be 10 years older than initially reported, is expected to appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate s Court on Friday, facing charges of conspiracy to commit murder and other charges related to plotting a coup.Mulaudzi said the Hawks, who are probing if he was working alone, would oppose bail. eNCA