LONDON - Eden Hazard hailed Antonio Conte's tactical masterstroke as the Chelsea star came off the bench to clinch a thrilling 4-2 victory against Tottenham in the FA Cup semi-finals.READ: Chelsea star Hazard doesn't have a price: ConteHazard and Diego Costa were surprisingly left on the bench at the start of Saturday's clash at Wembley as Blues boss Conte prioritised the Premier League leaders' vital fixture against Southampton on Tuesday.But the bold gamble paid off in spectacular fashion as Hazard's replacement Willian scored twice before the Belgian playmaker was sent on in the second half. Chelsea 4-2 Tottenham (22/4/17)@willianborges88 @hazardeden10 Matic pic.twitter.com/ISPXUoVLZc Hazard repaid his manager's faith with a superb strike to put Chelsea ahead before Nemanja Matic's stunning long-range effort put Chelsea in the FA Cup final for the first time since they last won the competition in 2012."When you play football you want to play every game, but the manager did a great choice. He put in Willian and he scored two goals," Hazard said."It s always good to win this kind of game, a semi against a London team, so for the fans it's good."It s my first final in five years at Chelsea so it's good." Eden Hazard has now scored vs Tottenham in all last 4 seasons: 2013/14 2014/15 (2) 2015/16 2016/17 pic.twitter.com/yrBwDXrAaL Matic's blistering strike was the highlight goal of a memorable occasion, but the Serbian midfielder said it wasn't the finest of his career. The Nemanja Matic goal gets better every time you watch it! -- -- --pic.twitter.com/OkdRhEymf4 "I am happy for my goal, it was a great goal, but it's not the best I've ever scored," he said."I scored a harder one in a Benfica v Porto derby. This is perhaps my second best ever." Kurt Zouma's reaction to Nemanja Matic's wonder goal. We are all like that bro! Unbelievable. #CFC pic.twitter.com/nsKrYiHlKT "To have a chance to win this trophy is significant for us as players," Matic added."This result gives us more confidence of course, it's always good to win. Now we have to recover quickly for the next game on Tuesday."AFP