VUWANI Two people burnt to death and one was taken to hospital after the car they were travelling in crashed into a pipe used to barricade the road in Vuwani , Limpopo and went up in flames. Limpopo police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said they were investigating a case of culpable homicide and were busy identifying the deceased. It is alleged that three people were travelling in a sedan and their vehicle crashed into one of the pipes that was used to barricade the road and went up in flames, said Ngoepe. Two people burnt to death and one was taken to hospital with serious injuries. READ: Vuwani residents march to municipal officesNgoepe has advised motorists to be vigilant while using roads in the area. Motorists are advised to drive with caution especially during the night because there might still be some barricades on some of the roads and because of the volatility of the situation. The possibility of stones being thrown at passing vehicles from the bushes cannot be ruled out, he said. In the event of this happening, the police must be contacted immediately. Police said the incident was not related to protest action because the deceased were not killed or burnt by the protesters but died due to an accident.Residents of Vuwani, outside Thohoyandou, shut down the area on Tuesday in protest against the Municipal Demarcation Board s decision to incorporate the area into a new municipality.READ: Vuwani residents vow to block municipal electionsPolice said six cars were damaged on Tuesday by people throwing stones from the bushes and cases of malicious damage to property were opened. However, no arrests had been made. The South African Police Service has done maximum deployment in the Vuwani area to protect all the community members and properties during these disruptive actions, Ngoepe said. The police will continue to monitor the situation until normality returns. Last year the area was a hotbed of public violence, which resulted in public buildings including schools being torched by angry residents, bringing classes to a standstill.For more than two months protesters shut down the town over the municipal demarcation issue. eNCA