JOHANNESBURG - Jomo Cosmos take on Wits in a Nedbank Cup Last-16 tie at the Tsakane Stadium in Ekurhuleni on Tuesday, with their coach Jomo Sono admitting that the league is their priority.Jomo Cosmos have won SA s premier cup competition once, in 1990. It was known as the Bob Save Super Bowl and Cosmos edged out AmaZulu 1-0 in the final.Their National First Division (NFD) match against Cape Town All Stars was abandoned after Cosmos playing kits and registration cards failed to arrive on schedule over the weekend.READ: 10th edition of Nedbank Cup hots upCosmos were beaten 1-0 by Stellenbosch FC in their last league match, which was played at the Tsakane Stadium a fortnight ago.Jomo Sono s side overcame SAB League side United Rovers 3-0 in the Last-32 encounter at home three weeks ago.Cosmos, who are seeking promotion to the Premier Soccer League, are four points behind third-place Stellenbosch on the league table, as the race for a top-three finish continues.Cosmos coach Sono has made it clear that they are not taking their encounter against Wits seriously, as they are prioritising the league over the Cup: Well, for us it s quite simple our main focus is the league. If we are knocked out of the tournament by Wits, that s okay. We will go back to the league and continue fighting for points. Wits have some pedigree in this competition, winning it twice. They beat Kaizer Chiefs in the 1978 final, when it was known as the Mainstay Cup.They also defeated AmaZulu in the 2010 Nedbank Cup final.Wits are coming off a 2-0 victory over Platinum Stars in the league at Wits Stadium on Saturday. They defeated Cape Town All Stars 2-0 in the Last-32 game, which was played in Cape Town in March.Wits currently top the Premiership table, two points ahead of Chiefs in second place.Wits coach Gavin Hunt is aware of the threat Cosmos could pose, but believes other factors could come into play.Hunt said: It will be a team of good individual talents in good areas so we ll check through the coverage and try and do the best we can in preparation. In a cup game I think the longer they keep it at 0-0 the more they ll have an advantage. So it s important for us to try and do something and keep the tempo of the game as high as possible and from as early as possible. The pitch will be the deciding factor, I think that s the problem. In Cosmos and Wits last encounter, Wits won 1-0 at the Olen Park Stadium in early 2016. African News Agency