 We all have dreams. But in order to make dreams come into reality, it takes an awful lot of determination, dedication, self-discipline, and effort . [Jesse Owens]. As I shiver slightly in my tented accommodation within the race village in the close to zero temperatures of the Free State farming town of Frankfort, with day 1 under my belt, these words ring true.It has been months of preparation, dedication, and training with this very end goal in sight. But perhaps nothing could have prepared me for the start of these 9 days, and although day 1 was a neutral stage, and arguably the flattest of all 9 days to come, it was by no means the easiest for various reasons both physical and mentalI left the office around 2pm on Thursday heading straight to race registration and in an instant the reality of what I was about to embark on, hit me. Nerves, butterflies and adrenalin. The hunger without appetite. The yearning to fast forward and the fear of wanting to stop the clock. Anticipation. Expectation. Pure excitement.The evening was spent packing. Planning and packing. Looking forward. It took ages to fall asleep, feeling somewhat like a kid the night before Christmas. 4 hours sleep is all that I managed, not ideal, but understandable.The race start at Karan Beef in Heidelberg at 8am Friday morning, was a rather crisp and chilly 4 degrees, but with perfect weather conditions. Not a cloud in the sky and hardly a breath of wind. I set off, Safari sunscreen applied, with local mountain biking legends Grant Usher and Amy Beth McDougall, and after getting valuable insight from them as to how to approach the next few days, the general consensus revolved around take it easy , ease into it and DON T BLOW IT ON DAY ONE .So it was with these considerations that I pushed down on the pedals, taking my time, taking in the views of open district road, navigating single track and listening with amusement to the banter of various riders in the bunches .Every now and then some of the stronger riders would come belting past, fuelling me, and I consciously had to remind myself that day one is a neutral stage, so no need to (try to) chase anyone down. Perhaps somewhat different to other races I have completed.At approximately half way (59km) we hit the second water point, and an exciting new addition to the race for 2017, crossing the Vaal Dam in motor boats / barges.The second half, after the water crossing is where it started to get a little bit more testing. Loads of soft river/beach sand, muddy marsh areas, grass tufts. All very trying terrain, but thankfully due to a couple of #TreadSkills mountain biking skills clinics, so I was able to tackle these obstacles far more economically and without wasting too much energy. Training paying dividends.The second half was also significantly more scenic, with long sections of trail along the banks of the Wilge river, and the 3rd water point beautifully resembling something more like a delightful school bazaar or child's birthday party. It s at that point that the reality hit me, the incredible and simultaneously humbling lengths that the local community s en-route have gone to, to provide a selection of refreshment and just participate. A small piece of a beautiful and worthy nation.Nearing the end of day one, and hitting the 12km to end mark, I hit a a slump. Its an understandable point in the mental journey thinking forward to the next 8 days. Feeling every pinch and pain. Underestimating the preparation. Questioning. Then only for all of this to be overshadowed at the 5km mark with the rather picturesque sight of the Frankfort Skyline . In all honesty there is not really much of a skyline at all, but after 111km and more than 5 hours in the saddle, if felt and looked like paradise! It gave me an instant boost and I raced those last 5km, like a horse bolting for home.Entering the race village was undoubtedly the highlight of the day. Achievement. Completion. All riders coming together. Everyone who s told me anything about this race has spoken of the gees , the spirit, the vibe. They say it s not about the race itself, but more about the overall experience. I believe this to be true, and have no doubt that emotionally mentally and physically this tour will be beyond life changing for me. So, after an amazing and fulfilling Karan beef dinner, and an inspiring briefing for the second day ahead in the saddle tomorrow, I know that every day will be tough, but the end reward and the finish in Scottburgh next weekend will be worth every push.Follow my journey on eNCA. But most importantly please log onto http://morethanyourself.co.za/fundraiser/kevin-grenfell/ to support my ride and give your support, no matter how big all small.- Kevin Grenfell