ORKNEY Orlando Pirates were able to put their league woes aside for the time being as they brushed aside Free State Stars 4-1 in a Nedbank Cup last 16 match at the James Motlatsi Stadium on Saturday night. FULL-TIME:@FreeStateStars 1-4 @Orlando_Pirates #NedbankCup After an evenly-balanced first half that had seen the sides go into the break at 1-1, Bucs put their foot on the pedal in the second half and finally dished up the kind of free-flowing, confident and stylish football their fans, and their new coach Kjell Jonevret, had been seeking. To add the icing on the cake, captain and talisman Oupa Manyisa suggested he s getting back to his influential best when he scored Pirates third goal with a superb piece of midfield play. After a fairly quiet start to proceedings, the game burst to life in the 12th minute as Tendai Ndoro turned sharply in the box, before firing just wide and then at the other end, Sthembiso Dlamini forced Pirates keeper Siyabonga Mpontshane into a save moments later. Having survived a goalmouth scramble, the Buccaneers again came close to netting when Manyisa s scorching drive whistled over the bar. And the pressure paid off for the visitors on 20 minutes when Mpho Makola smashed in a blistering 35-yard effort against his former employers. 19' GOAL! Bucs take an emphatic lead through Makola. Time & space on the ball for the midfielder, who fires home from distance. 0-1To their credit, Stars refused to let the setback get them down and they came back strongly trying to restore parity. The goal arrived soon after, defender Sifiso Mbhele nodding the ball into the bottom corner of the net after a short corner routine five minutes before half time. 40' GOAL!! Mbhele equalises for the home side.@FreeStateStars 1-1 @Orlando_Pirates #NedbankCupPirates though needed just two minutes of second half play to reclaim the advantage, the Sea Robbers going 2-1 up after Stars defender Joseph Okumu diverted Makola s testing cross into his own net. 47' GOAL! Ref plays advantage after Manyisa goes down. Makola picks up & his cross is headed in by Okumu, who beats his own keeper. 1-2 Ndoro was close to increasing Pirates lead a few minutes later, but was unlucky to see his shot striking the woodwork. The third goal was not long in coming however, Pirates pretty much sealing victory in the 63rd minute after Manyisa won possession in the centre-circle and then combined with Issa Sarr and Ndoro before brilliantly lifting the ball over Stars keeper Christoffer Mafoumbi and into goal. 75' SCORE UPDATE: Free State Stars 1-3 Orlando Pirates. FSS are really chasing the game now, with the Bucs happy to pick them on the counterA reckless challenge 13 minutes from time resulted in a second yellow card and an early shower for Makhehleni Makhaula as things went from bad to worse for Ea Lla Koto, who had beaten Pirates 3-2 in the league just a week ago. 93' GOAL! Lorch with a spectacular effort from just inside the box. Makola's freekick bounces to the winger, who's technique is superb. 1-4Unfortunately for them, worse was to come when Thembinkosi Lorch fired in a first-time shot with the outside of his right foot with the very last kick of the game to make it an even more memorable evening for the joyous Bucs fans in Orkney. Man of the match, Mpho Makola #NedbankCup pic.twitter.com/gG2KPHgpV0 It's been an awesome game for @Orlando_Pirates and they are through to the quarter finals of the #NedbankCup pic.twitter.com/RbvjpyMytz African News Agency