JOHANNESBURG The National Freedom Party (NFP) said it will be joining other opposition parties in the march to the Union Buildings, despite the party's provincial secretary warning members not to participate.On Tuesday, Gauteng NFP provincial secretary Sabelo Dlamini warned members: As the leadership of the NFP in Gauteng, we urge our loyal members of the organisation to desist from participating in protest marches that are clearly aimed at undermining the constitution of the republic, which gives the president of the country full powers to appoint and fire ministers. While we won t stop any person from exercising their right to protest, we discourage wearing of party regalia. Those that would be found in defiant of this order will be dealt with accordingly we will use all internal disciplinary mechanisms to deal with them. Dlamini also said those opt to march should refrain from wearing NFP party colours.However, the party said Dlamini issued the statement in his personal capacity and that the party's provincial and national leadership did not support Dlamini's views. (The) NFP stand is clear when it comes to fighting corruption: we want to place it on record that as NFP in KwaZulu-Natal we can t stand and fold our arms while our country is collapsing under the current leadership of the President Jacob Zuma. It is for this reason that provincial executive committee of KwaZulu-Natal resolved to support the call for Zuma to step down, said NFP s KZN provincial chairperson, Vikizitha Mlotshwa.READ: Opposition parties: We're together until Zuma goesThe party urged its supporters to come wearing party regalia to the march. The recent downgrading of our country has been proven to harm our economy and mostly it will hurt the poor. Our fear is that the longer we keep Zuma in the office, the more harm and damage it will be for our people. We have a duty and mandate from the people to defend and protect our country with its resources. We can t allow Zuma to turn our country in junk state, Mlotshwa added.Thousands of people are expected to take part and march to the Union Buildings today.Wednesday is also Zuma s 75th birthday, with celebrations set to take place in Kliptown, Soweto. Additional reporting African News AgencyeNCA