JOHANNESBURG - Proteas wicketkeeper-batsman, Quinton de Kock, leads the nominations for the 2016/17 Cricket South Africa (CSA) Awards. The gala event to honour South Africa s top performing cricketers over the past year will take place on 13 May 2017 at the Kyalami Theatre on the Track.The CSA Awards Judging panel recently finalised the nominations list for the glittering occasion. De Kock has been nominated in the following categories: SA Cricketer of the Year, Standard Bank Test Cricketer of the Year, and Standard Bank ODI Cricketer of the Year as well as the KFC Award of Excellence. In addition, he has secured his peers vote as SA Players Player of the Year and could be a contender for SA Fans Cricketer of the Year.READ: Rabada and De Kock into top-20 Test player rankings It is my great pleasure and privilege to congratulate all the nominees as we celebrate a very successful year of superior achievement by our Proteas who had won all their Test series in the past 12 months on top of impressive 5-0 clean sweeps against both Australia and Sri Lanka in ODI cricket, commented CSA Chief Executive, Haroon Lorgat. And let us not forget to thank all those great and selfless people who work diligently behind the scenes to create opportunities for our leading cricketers to excel. Our country continues to produce world-class players. We only need reflect on the superb way in which Quinton de Kock, Kagiso Rabada, Temba Bavuma and Keshav Maharaj have shone over the past year and who continue to grow alongside established greats like AB de Villiers, Hashim Amla and Dale Steyn. The CSA Awards Judging Panel consists of: Aslam Khota (Convener), Neil Manthorp, Victor Mpitsang, Robin Peterson, Shafiek Abrahams and Andrew Samson. As always, these awards are tough to judge due to the stiff nature of the competition, commented Khota. Our world-class senior players are well established and there is an encouraging number of international newcomers making their mark as well.READ: De Kock bats Proteas to ODI win against Australia The judging panel was impressed by the overall performances during the season of the nominees in the various categories, Khota added. The CSA Awards evening is the culmination of CSA Day which also sees the KFC CSA Amateur Awards breakfast taking place to be followed by the CSA Golf Day.The CSA Awards Dinner will be televised live on SuperSport 2 from 20h00 while SABC 3 will show a highlights package at a later date.African News Agency