JOHANNESBURG Police Minister Fikile Mbalula has called on people taking part in Wednesday s march to the Union Building to exercise their rights in accordance with the law without resorting to violence, criminality or damage to property.Mbalula was speaking during a media briefing in Pretoria on Tuesday, as thousands are expected to march from Church Square to Union Buildings on Wednesday. The planned march is jointly organised by opposition parties and civil organisations calling for President Jacob Zuma s resignation. Law enforcement agencies will be deployed in the area. We call upon protest organisers to ensure that the protest actions are peaceful and do not infringe on the rights of others. Intimidation of South Africans who choose not to the protest will not be tolerated. Many people died for the rights we exercise today. Many fought for a free, democratic South Africa where the rule of law reigns supreme. These rights must never be exercised without observing the responsibilities that accompany them, said Mbalula.Acting National Police Commissioner Khomotso Phahlane said the marchers have been granted permission to walk through the streets of Pretoria and police are expecting an orderly march. We do not have any information on a counter-march or protest action at this stage. We take it that is going to remain the case and everyone will respect the rights of those that will be participating in tomorrow s march. If any such counter-march were to become a reality we will do what we are supposed to be doing since our policing is not only focused on legal marches but even illegal ones, said Phahlane during the briefing.Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga, meanwhile, sees no conflict of interest in his DA-led administration granting an application for a protest march against President Zuma."I am just following the rule of law that if people are applying then we should allow people their constitutional right to demonstrate or to march, as long as it is done in a peaceful manner," he told eNCA in an interview.* Watch that full interview embedded below. eNCA