PRETORIA - The only two major milestones left in international men s athletics are possibly running a sub two-hour marathon and jumping further than nine metres.Watch this space as they say. Luvo Manyonga has done in the last four weeks what no other long jumper could do since 2009. That is to jump further than 8.60m. He is done so on two occasions.The past weekend at the South African Championships in Potchefstroom he jumped 8.65m to set a new national and African record.READ: Luvo Manyonga sets new African recordAt the Gauteng North Championships he jumped 8.62m According to Lee-Roy Newton (his agent) the Tuks-athlete has not even come close to fulfilling his true potential.The question is no longer whether Manyonga can jump nine metres but it is when he will jump nine metres.Newton s confidence stems from drawing comparison between the world record-holder, Mike Powell s (USA), magical world-breaking year and what Manyonga has achieved so far this season.Pandemonium in Potch as Luvo Manyonga sets a new SA record with his first jump in the men's final. #FillUpPotch @Power987Sport pic.twitter.com/1J6nmZeUmv In 1991 when Powell jumped 8.95m to set a new world record at the Tokyo World Championships he started his season by jumping 8.33m in May. He then averaged distances of 8.40 metres leading up to the World Championships, explained Newton. Luvo started his season with a jump of 8.40m followed by a jump of 8.62 and now at the national championships he jumped 8.65. So, it is clear at this stage that he is ticking all the right boxes to jump close to nine metres. I can confidently say he is capable of even going past nine metres. It is interesting to note that the TuksAthletics-athlete was born in 1991 the same year when Powell set the world alight with his massive jump. To be precise Manyonga was eight months old when that happened.READ: Manyonga hoping to resurrect ruined careerManyonga is quite confident in his capabilities and believes that he has what it takes to jump further than nine metres. You can say it is my calling to jump nine metres but I never focus on a specific distance when I compete. The only thing that matters is to ensure that I master all the small aspects in my technique. If I do that I know that the big jump will happen, said Manyonga.AFP