JOHANNESBURG - This race is so much more than just that. A race. It s a whole multitude of things. Different perhaps for each rider. It s a challenge. Its personal achievement. It s a goal for the better good. But on the ground it s a whole ton of logistics that seamlessly happen, and a steadfast workable routine for every participant.As with every other morning so far, I woke to the sound of AC/DC's "Thunderstruck" blaring though the Reitz showgrounds PA system. A cruel and cold 5am, yet a familiar and growingly welcoming awakening.The ride was to be one of the longer and more challenging days at 123km and 1188m of Climbing (with a nasty climb 111km in). I was naturally apprehensive.After much sleepy internal deliberation (about wanting more sleep, and being cold), I dragged myself to the catering marquee. This morning was oats, a couple of eggs, a banana and a muffin. Catering for the masses, done well. The ride ahead in mind.All of this was washed down with one of my new and favourite new discoveries, a cup of Truestart performance coffee (95mg of natural caffeine), together with a healthy scoop of virgin coconut oil and raw honey. I believe it's called bullet proof coffee. It certainly is.Then to take care of the usual morning ablutions and to head back to my tent to change into the days riding kit.This was followed by my next favourite "nutritional discovery", a shot of concentrated beetroot juice. This little elixir is believed to be a natural nitric oxide and a rich stamina booster.Once dressed and bags packed, I head over to the bike park to collect my bike and do last minute technical checks (tyre pressure, chain lube, and all moving bits right).Back at the tent, we carry our massive joBerg2c bags and mattresses to the Avis Van Rental trucks, loaded to be transported to the next race village down the route. It's an incredible logistical operation, shifting an entire village (aka camp site) accommodating 800-900 people, to the next town. Tents, bags, mattresses. And whilst this all flawlessly happens, we as riders get the fun part of riding a bike 100km through the most immaculate scenery.Its then time to head down the chute. Race time. Go.Give or take 3-7 hours, depending on your riding ability and the distance of course, you arrive in the next town and the next routine starts.... Admin...Bike to the bike wash. Locate your tent for the day/night. Locate your bag, and drag it to the tent which selfishly after 6/7 hours riding, the last thing you feel like is carry a gigantic bag to a designated sleeping space for the night.I usually try to get a recovery drink in as quick as possible, then have a well-earned and needed shower before heading to the dining marquee for lunch.Then more admin, it's off to the basins to do some washing and clean your water bottles. The required and perhaps not so glamourous side of stage racing and living in a tented village.The afternoon nap follows. Well-deserved and required. R&R in mind, I would also recommend that massage, stretching and even yoga are a necessary addition to the daily routine.Before you know it, it's time to eat (supper) again and attend the race briefing: comprising a comprehensive run down of the next day's riding and route. Planning. Preparation. Emotionally, physically and mentally.Then it's back to the tent to prepare everything for the next morning s AC/DC alarm. Water bottles filled, clothes laid out, nutrition prepared, Sunscreen ready. Finally warmth and sleep.JoBerg2c: A first timer s accountA day passed, and whilst it sounds like an awful lot of admin, you have to count the blessings. You're out seeing our beautiful country from the seat of a saddle with your feet at the peddles doing what you (mostly) love. Mostly, because there are instances where (perhaps a testing climb) results in all kinds of things coming out of your mouth... But those moments pass, and are overshadowed by the positives.Day 3 was my best so far. The extreme distance and understandable nerves prompted me to approach the km s gently, warm up, and then see where it went.This approach seemed to pay off and I got stronger and stronger as the route progressed At approximately 80km in, I crested a long and tiring hill to be met at the top by 5/6 local ladies cheering and ululating. Again a magnificent, humbling and beautiful tribute from the supporting communities. This small gesture really touched my soul and gave me the needed natural boost, smiling from ear to ear for the next 43km!As my primary purpose in riding this race (apart from the noted required personal achievement and bucket list tick ) is to honour the memory of my own mother, emotions somehow ran high for me on this particular day. I found myself being driven and fuelled by the memory fixed in my mind of what an inspiring and strong woman she was. As a result, more than before, I drew on some of my internal "resources" for the day s pursuit. Breathing techniques I've learnt in yoga, and deliberately not riding too hard and intentionally keeping my heart rate down. Most of all, going to the spiritual sanctuary that riding has become for me.People say that challenges such as this one are won entirely in your head. Today I believe I experienced that. Yes, my legs/muscles felt good, and I was regimental about staying hydrated and nourished. But it was my head, and perhaps my heart that saw me through not only to a finish but moving up 24 places in the overall GC rankings from the day before. A small honour, and a motivation for the day that lies ahead.Follow my journey on eNCA.com But most importantly please log onto http://morethanyourself.co.za/fundraiser/kevin-grenfell/ to support my ride and give your support, no matter how big all small. - Kevin Grenfell eNCA