PRETORIA Members of civil society organisation Save SA were attacked by a group of 10 men who burnt down their banners on Wednesday evening.The organisation is camping at Church Square and has planned a march along with other organisations against President Jacob Zuma. Masango confirms that one of the men who attacked the #SaveSA camp set up at Church Square was armed. #peoplesmarch Save SA has called for Zuma to step down in the wake of his recent Cabinet reshuffle which resulted in a public outcry and Standard & Poor s placing South Africa's credit outlook at junk status.READ: March against Zuma to go ahead, as plannedSave SA said some of the group that attacked them were wearing ANC regalia. We ve just had an incident right now where a few thugs came through here and ripped through Save SA banners and banners of other organisations, said Save SA s Themba Masango. They specifically said that we should leave Church Square and that they are going to burn this tent tonight and that none of us are going to sleep here. They are saying that they are going to defend Zuma. Masango has asked why the protesters wanted to defend Zuma from them because they are mere civilians. We are not politicians we are non-partisan, we are just South Africans, we are saying we have had enough with the status quo, we have had enough with the state capture. READ: DA lays charges of incitement against ANCYLMasango said despite the threats and intimidation, they will not be deterred. We are saying to them that they must come back so that we can reason with them and have debate and an open dialogue but the way of violence is not the way that we are prepared to go, said Masango. However, if needs be, we will defend our situation here, we will defend our tent, we are here peacefully, we are here by right, we are here because we are South African citizens and all we are demanding is for Jacob Zuma to leave and vacate office now. JUST IN: Themba Masango from #SaveSA says they were attacked at Church Square by about 10 men who burnt down their banners. #PeoplesMarch pic.twitter.com/VUlj041xJq Masango says despite the threats and intimidation, they will not be deterred. #SaveSA #PeoplesMarch pic.twitter.com/62ihNp9l4B eNCA