JOHANNESBURG - A South African woman is hoping to make history. Saray Khumalo will head to Mount Everest this weekend.It s been a long, sometimes tragic, journey, but in just two months, she could be on top of the world. At 05:30am Khumalo would hit the road, driving nearly 60 kilometres for a training session in Pretoria.The long trip was just the start, of a much tougher journey, Khumalo is hoping to climb Mount Everest.She ll make history, if she gets to the summit, becoming the first black African woman to reach the top.She says the climb sends a clear message to young girls."Gender shouldn t be an issue. Where they come from shouldn t be an issue. How much they have shouldn t be an issue. They must believe in themselves. Because if you believe in yourself, everybody else believes in you. And that takes you to the next step," said Khumalo who has been to Everest twice.Both trips ended in tragedy.In 2014 a massive avalanche killed 16 guides, and a year later nearly 20 climbers died when an earthquake struck Nepal.READ: Massive earthquake devastates NepalShe headed back home and at the time it seemed that her dreams were in tatters. But Khumalo refuses to give up."No situation is permanent unless if you allow it. So understand it. Soak from it. Learn from it. And move forward. Because it s possible. It s only if you wallow in the negative that you remain within that situation," said the mountaineer."Whether it s me on the mountain, and I m having a bad day, you know what, that day is going to come to an end. Tomorrow is another day. And another chance for me to try again."Everest is a hard taskmaster. The air is extremely thin, with oxygen levels nearly 70 percent below normal, but Khumalo isn t afraid.She s already come close to death falling into a coma, after a bike accident last year.Just a few weeks later, she was back in her car heading to the gym."I think many a time, we look to other people to make a difference. And we also look at how only extraordinary people do certain things. But you know what, even ordinary people like me can do extraordinary things. And I think that s why I m doing this, and pushing forward," said Khumalo.Khumalo could rewrite the record books but that's not her ultimate goal, she wants to help others.She s already raised nearly half a million rand. That money will go towards libraries in poor communities.She said it s just one step towards a better South Africa. One step that could take her to the top of the world.eNCA