JOHANNESBUEG - Glamour Boys legend Sylvester City Kole feels that Kaizer Chiefs can challenge for the league title, based on the second half performance against Mamelodi Sundowns.The former defender and central midfielder, who played for the club from 1976 until 1989, was an eager spectator at FNB Stadium on Saturday night. We gave Sundowns too much space in the first half, Kole said on the 2-1 win. Especially Ramahlwe Mphahlele had a difficult time early on, also because they didn t play with real wingers.Match Highlights: Kaizer Chiefs vs. Mamelodi Sundowns #AbsaPrem #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/NxQF39jsvO They got too much space to knock the ball behind our defence, he continued, before adding that Chiefs took control of the midfield when the game progressed. That s when Willard Katsande and Siphiwe Tshabalala started marshalling the middle of the park. They were both outstanding, getting support from George Maluleka, who also did well. According to Kole, Tshabalala can in his present form even add to Bafana Bafana . City was, in particular, impressed with Amakhosi s second half performance. We were able to shut them down, even though Khama Billiat and Percy Tau still tried to penetrate through the middle. READ: Sundowns continue to falter as Amakhosi steam ahead with 2-1 winHe was also happy to see Chiefs strikers pressing the Sundowns defence early on. That s how we got the second goal when Gustavo Pa z harassed their defender into a poorly judged back pass. We should only have added a third goal, as George Lebese should have finished that opportunity he got, rued Kole, who gained a reputation during his career of marking Jomo Sono out of the game, which was quite an achievement at the time. City does, however, point out that Lebese did well after coming on as a substitute in the second half. By holding up the ball, George was able to help change the game.READ: Venezuelan Paez upbeat and aiming high at Chiefs If we can continue to play as we did in the second half, concluded Kole, and add a little bit more aggression, then we can definitely challenge for the league title. Chiefs are in the second spot on the Absa Premiership table, two points behind BidVest Wits, although they have two games in hand.African News Agency