We have now officially now passed the half way mark and are deep into the Kwa Zulu Natal Midlands at our day 5 stop-over, the magnificent Clifton School in Nottingham Road.But let s rewind a few days Days 1 to 3 comprised mostly of quite flat, soft loose sand, boggy marshes, endless miles of district road which were unexpectedly tough as we left Gauteng and traversed the judicial capital of the Free State.Day 4 saw us leave the 2,616,900 MegaL Sterkfontein Dam near Harrismith and descend the escarpment into KZN, spending a chilly night at Emseni Camp approximately 20km from Winterton. Incredible riding. Amazing downhills and single-track navigation.Day 5 being the toughest day of the race so far, ( so far being the operative words as there are more new and untraveled Kms still to come), started 30 minutes earlier at 6:30am and saw us heading south, bit by bit, edging our way to the warm Indian Ocean town of Scottburgh.Kevin Grenfell - joBerg2c Day 5 (part 1)I approached the day with a certain degree of trepidation, using the same strategy and approach as day 3, start slow, end strong.I rode with the Avis Van Rental Ladies for a while, happy to be part of their attempted move from their current 2nd position to 1st. After this I eagerly joined up with Namibian mixed masters team Diesel & Hipsway , two wonderful and incredible salt of the earth people from Windhoek. Jan happened to carry a backpack with a bluetooth speaker inside, and the playing of Sweet Home Alabama never sounded better than it did on this day!I cheerfully parted ways the Namibians some time later, and enjoyed some solo time in the saddle. I was quite unexpectedly hit some time later by a wall of wonderful and positive emotions as childhood memories triggered by the current countryside we were journeying, came flooding back to me.Kevin Grenfell - joBerg2c Day 5 (part 2)I was born in Port Shepstone on the South Coast and grew up between Pietermaritzburg and Durban. Given the location and the KZN education syllabus at the time (specifically history), I clearly recall our school trips to Wagen Drift Dam, our hockey matches against Clifton and various farm school visits to Treverton.I also recall seeing snow in a haze of childhood amazement for the first time in Primary school whilst staying at a guest house owned by one of my sister s school friend s parents.All of these memories lay along the route in the vicinity of where the day 5 route took us, and allowed me to take an exquisite momentary step back in time. My honeymoon in Antbear and my beautiful daughter Holly. Blessings, gifts and meaning taken forward. The mood and emotional content set, my childhood memories evoked a strong feeling to the conscious mind and were indeed like the pleasing dreams that stay with you long after you are wide awake. READ: Riding for a future without tuberculosisAnother emotion that hit me hard, perhaps because of a current state of mind, was the confirmation of why I am doing this and who I m actually raising funds for. The awareness of OneVoice South Africa. Riding through poor rural communities, who still share a communal water pump system i.e.: they don t have running water in their own homes and dwellings, humbled me beyond words. Hundreds of primary school kids lined the side of a track through their village, cheering us on with smiles and waves like we were world champs. Champs in their world. A true, humbling and honest validation.On, perhaps a a more serious note, conceivably like many others, I ve felt a want to do something to make a difference for those less fortunate than me for some time now, but have been held back by not having felt the right time or channel or knowing where to start. This race, the platform, the organisers, the media (eNCA specifically) and relevant sponsors have given me an outlet to do something wonderful, to actively speak out and make a small difference allowing me an inspiration and a yearning to ultimately do more. For that I am grateful.READ: TB still leading cause of death: StatsSABack to day 5 of the race, and with all the triggered emotion and a cautious approach, I made up several minutes on the monster climbs at the last third of the race and ended finishing with a result that I m more than happy with. While racing hasn t been my primary motivation in this instance, it certainly doesn t do any harm to one s ego when you perform better than anticipated, especially when fuelled by something dedicated, strong and wonderful. Again, training paying dividends, and a sense of fulfilment and achievement. An inner strength gladly rewarded.While it was a very hard day in the saddle for most, I believe that my ride was something quite different. I didn t really notice the hard times , but rather, was deeply and undeniably moved by positive feelings about why I m here to cycle in the first place.Follow my journey on eNCA.com But most importantly please log onto http://morethanyourself.co.za/fundraiser/kevin-grenfell/ to support my ride and give your support, no matter how big all small.- Kevin Grenfell eNCA