JOHANNESBURG – A total of 73 fatalities were reported in the mining industry in 2016 compared to 77 during the previous year, a five percent improvement year-on-year, Minister of Mineral Resources Mosebenzi Zwane said on Thursday. Zwane revealed this on Thursday when he released statistics on the health and safety performance of the mining industry for the 2016 calendar year at Harmony Gold’s Doornkop mine, west of Johannesburg. #MineDeaths Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane says 73 people died in the country's mines in 2016 #MineDeaths Zwane says the stats exclude the #LilyMine tragedy where 3 people died #MineDeaths but I point out to Zwane that this means 76 people died in the country's mine last year not 73. #MineDeaths Zwane says that's because an inquiry is still underway “This is regrettable, as we believe that these mines should be at the forefront in terms of the development of appropriate systems and expertise to enhance health and safety,” Zwane said. “Despite the improvement in the number of fatalities reported in 2016, I want to convey my serious concern that we continue to experience loss of life in the mining sector. Already, there are four fatalities that have been reported since the beginning of this year, with the most recent occurring yesterday.” The breakdown of the fatalities per commodity during the year 2016 showed that the gold sector suffered 30 fatalities, platinum came second with 27 fatalities, coal had four deaths and other mines, including diamonds, chrome, copper and iron ore mines, only had 12 fatalities. But this figure did not take into account the three mineworkers who are still trapped underground since the collapse of a crown pillar at Lily Gold Mine outside Barberton in Mpumalanga on February 5, 2016 because “an inquiry is still underway”. READ: Mineworker killed during rockfall at Impala Zwane said the investigation into the underlying causes of this accident commenced last year, and had now been converted into a formal inquiry in terms of the legal provisions. He said the 2016 statistics suggested that the major gold and platinum mines remained the main contributors to accidents and the subsequent loss of lives. Zwane said the department had initiated discussions with the National Prosecuting Authority to strengthen the ability to prosecute negligent miners, in as far as fatalities, injuries and occupational diseases in the sector were concerned. “I would like to appeal to all the employers and mine management to ensure that the health and safety of their workers is always prioritised. We should not place more value on profits over the lives of workers,” Zwane said. “As the department entrusted with the responsibility to enforce the legal provisions on health and safety, our standpoint is clear – if you cannot mine safely, then don’t mine at all. Find people who can mine safely, and can extract the mineral wealth of our country without killing, maiming or causing any occupational ill health and diseases.” Zwane said the department would continue to work with its social partners to ensure that there was a significant and sustained improvement in the health and safety of mineworkers. African News Agency