RUSTENBURG – A 37-year-old man accused of hacking a man to death and drinking his blood in Marikana, near Rustenburg, was denied bail at the Bafokeng Magistrate’s Court in Tlhabane on Wednesday. Magistrate Edward Morweng ruled that Aubrey Goeneone Setsong did not prove exceptional circumstances to warrant his release on bail. “The application was based on the interest of justice and not on exceptional circumstances…” Morweng ruled that Setsong could flee to evade trial and it would not be easy for the police to trace him as residents of Marikana West had already marched to the Marikana police station in December and told the station commander that their neighbourhood was a no-go area for officers. The magistrate also said there was a possibility that Setsong could intimidate witnesses. “Warrant Officer [Victor] Ramorwesi, the investigating officer in this case had told the court that two witnesses saw the applicant hacking the deceased with a panga in the head and body, and drank his blood. The two witnesses are in hiding following the situation in Marikana,” the magistrate said. He said Setsong’s life would be in danger if released on bail. READ: Man hacked to death in Marikana Setsong is charged alongside five others, including community activist Napoleon Webster. The State alleges that the six were part of a group of over 30 people who hacked a man to death in Marikana West on December 8. The incident was alleged to have been triggered by the illegal occupation of RDP houses in Marikana West, which had caused a bitter feud between ANC and EFF members in the area. The case was postponed to Friday after Setsong’s legal representative, Leofi Leshabana, told the court he intends bringing another bail application based on new facts, which he said were obtained after he had closed his case. The application was granted and a date for the bail application would be set on Friday. Setsong was also expected to testify in the bail application of some of his five co-accused on the same day. African News Agency