SAN LAMEER, KwaZulu-Natal Lee-Anne Pace proved once again that form is temporary, but class is permanent when she capitalised on a blistering start to take the first round lead in the SA Women s Open on Thursday.Many have struggled for form in the SA Women s Masters last week, but with the trusty Scotty Cameron putter back in the bag, the two-time defending champion was at her vintage best on a sun-kissed day at San Lameer Country Club.She made the most of the calm conditions to fire a six-under-par 66 to open up a two-stroke lead over Monique Smit.The Fancourt golfer was equally impressive with five birdies and an eagle at the par five eighth to finish ahead of fellow Sunshine Ladies Tour winner Stacy Bregman.Kiran Matharu erased a double bogey start with birdies at eight and 10 and moved into contention with back-to-back gains at 16 and 17. The Englishwomen signed for a 70 to finish shot clear of compatriot and former champion Rebecca Hudson.Carrie Park from South Korea, who celebrated a maiden Sunshine Ladies Tour victory in the SA Women s Masters title last Saturday, clocked in at even-par.Pace couldn t have hoped for a better start as she aims to become the first three-time winner of the national championship.A birdie at the opening hole gave the 35-year-old Paarl golfer the perfect start and she pushed into an early tie for the lead with three successive putts from the third. Further gains at eight and 12 saw her leave Smit behind. Although a bogey at the short 16th spoiled her perfect card, but finished in style with a birdie at the final hole. The putter definitely made a huge difference, Pace said. I wanted to try the two-ball putter, so I used it at the SA Women s Masters last week, but I just couldn t get a grip on the pace. I spoke to Ashleigh (Buhai), who knows my game really well, and she told me to go back to the blade putter. So I threw out to the two-ball and put the Scotty Cameron back in the bag. I had a really fantastic day on the greens. I actually hit the ball better in Cape Town than today, but that will improve over the next two days. The lack of wind also helped, especially at the tougher holes and the course is not as wet as it has been in the past years. The wind was blowing from the same direction as during the pro-am, but it was nothing like that 35 km gale we braved on Wednesday. I lost a little focus on the back nine and hit it in the hazard at 16, but I made a great chip so it was a good four. There is still room for improvement, but I m just really happy to have started strongly to give myself a shot at the hat-trick. Smit, who lost a huge amount of weight since the end of the 2016 Sunshine Ladies Tour last March, was positively glowing after her opening round. To carry 20 kg less around this course is an eye-opener, she laughed. I feel like I could go another 18 holes right now. I I got a little busy with the putter at the start, but I sorted that out and I had a great time out there. The eagle at the eighth was a huge bonus because the ball ran past the flag and spun back off the slope, leaving me a short putt for a three. I m just excited to be out there, hitting the ball with some freedom and it s great to be in the mix again. Zethu Myeki from Border and Gauteng junior Woo Ju Son opened with rounds of 74 to share the amateur lead. The pair are tied for 11th with South African professional Mae Cornforth and Sweden s Sofia Ljungqvist.First Round Scores All players RSA unless otherwise specified and amateurs indicated as (AMA): 66 Lee-Anne Pace 68 Monique Smit 69 Stacy Bregman 70 Kiran Matharu (ENG) 71 Lejan Lewthwaite, Rebecca Hudson (ENG) 72 Carrie Park (KOR) 73 Louise Larsson (SWE), Francesca Cuturi, Ashleigh Buhai 74 Mae Cornforth, Zethu Myeki AMA, Woo-Ju Son AMA, Sofia Ljungqvist (SWE) 75 Nobuhle Dlamini (SWZ), Ivanna Samu, Melissa Eaton, Casandra Hall AMA, Frankie Bosman AMA 76 Lynette Fourie AMA, Michelle Leigh, Danielle du Toit AMA, Lindi Coetzee AMA, Monja Richards, Kim Williams 77 Brittney-Fay Berger AMA, Symone Henriques AMA, Nicole Garcia 78 Chiara Contomathios AMA, Larissa Du Preez AMA, Hannah Arnold (USA) 79 Alexandra Lennartsson (SWE), Tandi von Ruben, Kajal Mistry AMA, Tijana Kraljevic, Bertine Strauss, Alana van Greuning, Kaleigh Telfer AMA, Bonita Bredenhann (NAM) 80 Michelle de Vries, Flavia Namakula (UGA), Nina Grey AMA, Anna Sventrup (SWE) 81 Marguerite Pienaar, Maria Roos (SWE), Leslie Grandet (MAD), Morgana Robbertze, Catherine Lau AMA 82 Siviwe Duma, Hanna Roos (SWE), Chevonne Botha, Mandy Adamson 83 Yolanda Duma, Laura Sedda (ITA), Anne-Lise Caudal (FRA) 84 Ethel Ruthenberg AMA, Caitlyn Macnab AMA 86 Clara Pietri (SUI) 87 Shawnelle de Lange AMA 90 Wilna Bredenhann AMA (NAM), Laura Welch (CAN) Missed the cut:- RTD Muriel McIntyre (CAN).Africa News Agency