The man commonly referred to as the Formula One ringmaster Bernie Ecclestone has been fired from his role as CEO of the biggest motorsport spectacle in the world.The new owners of F1 are Liberty Media Corporation which has taken over from Delta Topco. For months now that deal has been on the cards but is now final. Liberty, an American media company with annual revenues of about US$4.8 billion, will take a full control. I m proud of the business that I built over the last 40 years and all that I have achieved with Formula 1, reads an emotional statement from Ecclestone (86), and would like to thank all of the promoters, teams, sponsors and television companies that I have worked with. I m very pleased that the business has been acquired by Liberty and that it intends to invest in the future of F1. I am sure that Chase will execute his role in a way that will benefit the sport. He will become something called Chairman emeritus, which is just a symbolic position to make him feel still wanted.That probably won t achieve the desired result, but the short man who s said to be worth US$2.9 billion (about R39 billion) shouldn t complain too much.The Chase to whom he refers is Chase Carey (63) who assumes the role of Chairman and CEO of F1.He is also currently the Vice Chairman of the 21st Century Fox, the multimedia conglomerate run by James Murdoch. I am excited to be taking on the additional role of CEO, said Carey. F1 has huge potential with multiple untapped opportunities. I have enjoyed hearing from the fans, teams, FIA, promoters and sponsors on their ideas and hopes for the sport. We will work with all of these partners to enhance the racing experience and add new dimensions to the sport and we look forward to sharing these plans over time. During the meeting, the representatives of the prospective new owner made a detailed presentation of their strategy.The members of the World Motor Sport Council then had the opportunity to ask questions about the specifics of the agreement, the ongoing working relationship with the FIA and Liberty s plans for the sport.The FIA will keep its 1% shareholding in the new entity, the same 1% it held at Delta Topco.IN4RIDE