JOHANNESBURG – Limpopo resident Malehotlo Makgamatha's 1.5l Ford Kuga Ecoboost burst into flames while she was behind the wheel, with her friend and two children as passengers. Makgamatha was alerted to the blaze in June 2016 by another road user, who managed to get her attention in busy rush-hour traffic. She immediately stopped the car and all passengers got out. Makgamatha said she was helped by other drivers who had fire extinguishers on hand to put out the flames. WATCH: Kuga drivers to file class action suit against Ford According to Makgamatha, the car had not yet had its first service as she had bought it only months before, in November 2015.  Three days after the incident, Makgamatha contacted Ford McGee, which according to her, did not take responsibility for the car and instead made the matter an insurance dispute. “Ford told me this cannot be related to Ford, even though I told them what had happened to the car and showed them pictures of the vehicle after it was burnt. The staff at Ford were also very rude, they were obviously stressed because of the amout of Ford drivers coming in and complaining." Makgamatha said she was tired of being given the run around. "What I want now is to be rid of this car. I have lost complete faith in the Ford brand." "I am scared to drive. Now I have to drive with bricks in my car so in case it catches fire I can get my children and myself out." READ: More Kugas aflame According to Makgamatha, Ford's investigation report showed an incorrect installation of a bulb, which caused the spotlight housing to melt and ignite. Ford told me on more than one occasion that they cannot recall my vehicle because it is a Kuga 1.5l EcoBoost and not a Kuga 1.6l.  Ford issues Kuga recall Ford recall #FordKuga RT for Awareness pic.twitter.com/nZ2ulX0fLI On January 16 Ford South Africa issued a safety recall for Kuga models equipped with the 1.6-litre engine to address an engine overheating condition that could cause a fire. According to the motor dealership, a total of 4,556 vehicles, built between December 2012 and February 2014, are affected by this safety recall. Ford insisted that Kuga models with 1.5-litre and 2.0-litre engines are not affected. Ford South Africa could not be reached for comment on Thursday morning. Meanwhile, footage emerged on Thursday of another Ford model in flames, this time a Figo. The footage is reportedly taken in a Nelspruit Medclinic car park. eNCA