Tweets by @OfficialCSA PORT ELIZABETH - The five-match Momentum One-Day International (ODI) series against Sri Lanka starting at St George s Park in Port Elizabeth on Saturday will be an important building block for the Proteas ahead of the ICC Champions Trophy in England in June.READ: CSA congratulates Momentum Proteas on impressive series winThe squad will be looking to continue with their consistency in performance following the 5-0 win against Australia, and will have 13 matches to trial and assess game plans ahead of the tournament.Captain AB de Villiers says the coming series will be an opportunity to build confidence and to allow some of the youngsters in the squad to gain confidence ahead of the showpiece. The captain makes an anticipated return after more than six months on the sidelines and is raring to get back into action after the injury layoff.READ: Proteas batsman cross swords for charity We are in a really good space, De Villiers said in Port Elizabeth on Friday. After the West Indies series you can see from the way that we have been playing that it is a happy group of players. The team spirit is good and the culture is in place. I think the guys feel fresh, everyone feels like they belong and they have a role to play. I m very keen to play tomorrow, I can t wait, he said. I have been out of the game for a long time. I have been hitting the ball better than ever. I have to get the mind in the right place tomorrow and be prepared to work hard for my runs like I always have. Hopefully, I will do well for the team. READ: Sri Lanka scores historic series win over ProteasDe Villiers says the loss of young fast bowler Lungi Ngidi is unfortunate but he has been impressed by the potential the youngster has shown in the T20 International series. It s great to see him come through, he said of the 20-year-old. He has a great future ahead of him and he will need to be managed really well. He has a long road to travel but the talent is certainly there, the mind is there, he has a great head on his shoulder. Personality-wise and mentally, I feel he is really strong, he has shown that over the last few games. The selectors had yet to finalise the starting XI on Friday, with rain around the area opening up different options in traditionally dry and spin-friendly conditions. We have two spinners in the squad so it s always a possibility and an option for us, De Villiers said of the starting combinations. With this rain around, a little bit of grass on the wicket, we may look at just one spinner. At the moment we have a squad of 14 players and any of them can play. Africa News Agency