JOHANNESBURG - The City of Johannesburg said on Wednesday that one of its former candidate valuers, Mbali Maclare, has been arrested on charges of fraud and corruption amounting to almost R500 million. This follows the airing of the Carte Blanche expose on 6 November 2016 about irregularities in the execution of Johannesburg property valuations. The City of Joburg said it followed up the Carte Blanche expose with an investigation of its own conducted by its internal forensic investigations unit, headed by General Shadrack Sibiya. In a statement, the City said Maclare was identified as the person responsible for irregular and fraudulent adjustments and devaluing of 22 properties in Johannesburg, amounting to just under R500-million. The fraudulent adjustments and changes resulted in the loss of an estimated R40 million worth of revenue over five financial years. Maclare is expected to appear in the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court on Monday facing charges of fraud and corruption and further arrests on this matter are imminent. A deputy director in the City who was exposed in the Carte Blanche episode has also been suspended pending disciplinary processes. We won't allow self-serving City officials, residents & private companies to continue to benefit at the expense of all other residents. Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba slammed fraudulent property valuations in the city, saying his administration was hell-bent on rooting out corruption. Mashaba said this money should have been used to provide much-needed basic services such as water, electricity and refuse removal to the poor and most vulnerable residents. “Disgracefully, this forensic report, like so many others, had been swept under the carpet by the previous administration and kept from the public eye,” Mashaba said in a statement. “The first I knew of it was when Carte Blanche brought it to my attention. Despite this report being hidden from me, I am pleased to state that the new administration immediately took action.” Mashaba also congratulated Sibiya and his team for their work. I'd like to congratulate General Sibiya & his team for their excellent work in investigating corrupt officials without fear or favour. “I would also like to acknowledge the role and support of the SAPS and the prosecuting authority in this case. Working together we will ensure that the rule of law is restored in our City,” Mashaba said. eNCA