PRETORIA Percy Maimela is a self-taught artist from Pretoria who discovered his passion for drawing when he was in Grade 3.But it was not until some salt spilled on the floor of the shop where he worked that he discovered he had a unique ability to turn an everyday item into realistic works of art."You can just take small stones and make something that no one ever thought of. You can take salt, you can take maize meal and make something, like normally you know salt is for food and stuff but then here's salt, do you believe that salt is even salt companies they wouldn't say salt is just for food anymore. So it gives me a lot of... too much chance to practise. With one bag I can just... waste, make as many masterpieces as I can," Maimela said."Being an artist in total is not easy, because not everyone understands art and not everyone is willing to buy art. But everyone is willing to buy something that's provoking to their feelings."Sometimes I'll just carry just a black cloth and a bag of salt, then you can just come and give me R300 and then I'll just sketch your face, quick. You see? And for you it's a memory and you'll never get that at anywhere else. You can go anywhere, you'll never get that."What I love about salt is, it's cheaper man, R5 you can, you give me 5 rand, you give me just a black space or a dark space, then I can produce a masterpiece and then I can reuse the salt and produce another masterpiece. So with one bag of salt I can make like as much as I want, you see? That's the thing. Artistic material is quite expensive, if you want good quality.""It's draining, sometimes you get clients, sometimes you get proper gigs and stuff, but for me, I am still in a learning stage, I wouldn't say like it's joyous and stuff, but I'm still in a learning stage but I can see a light and a very big light at the end of the tunnel."The 31-year-old says he has loved art since he was a child and knew he had a level of talent above his peers but never thought it would lead to anything. He couldn't afford professional training so when he finished high school, he went into retail for six years. Then in 2014, Maimela walked into the storeroom at a shop where he worked and found salt spilled on the floor, which changed his view of art forever. His latest inspiration, Barack Obama provoked mixed feelings around the world as he left office at the end of two terms as president of the United States. Maimela also works in pencil. He has not been able to get any work shown in galleries but believes his profile is growing, especially thanks to the internet.He runs a blog and has been featured on an online artist platform called artwanted.com.Reuters