FORT WORTH, Texas A Texas police chief says he is standing by a 10-day suspension given to a white officer who was filmed wrestling a black mother and her daughter to the ground during a December incident.Fort Worth Police Chief Joel Fitzgerald said at a news conference Friday that leaked body cam footage and personnel records from previous disciplinary actions against officer William Martin would not affect the suspension.Fitzgerald also says the leak was illegal and he plans to investigate it as a criminal act. He says the leak also did not influence charges against the mother and daughter being dropped Thursday.Fort Worth Mayor Betsy Price says she is asking the city and chief for systematic change at the department, but did not specify what changes she wants to see.The footage was provided Thursday to The Associated Press from attorneys representing Jacqueline Craig, who had called police last month to report that a neighbor choked her 7-year-old son for allegedly littering in his yard. One of her daughters videoed the interactions between Craig and Officer William Martin and posted it online. The neighbor was not charged in the incident.The Fort Worth Police Department has denied media requests to release Martin s bodycam footage, and a department spokesman didn t immediately return a message seeking comment Thursday morning. But the audio of the bodycam video, reviewed by The Associated Press, matches the audio of the Facebook video posted by Craig s family. What ever happened to the serve and protect @fortworthpd preamble to the constitution equal rights; relieve Ofc William Martin of his duties https://t.co/bF3IGpPH9gCraig s attorney, Lee Merritt, said in an email that he had received the bodycam video from a trusted source whom he declined to identify. Under the laws of the State of Texas, the attorneys for the Craig family are legally entitled to the complete investigative file, records and recordings of this incident and any officers involved. The FWPD have denied and/or delayed several requests from our office in providing this information, Merritt wrote.The footage also depicts Martin s conversation with Craig and one of her daughters after he places them in the back of a patrol vehicle. Here s the deal. When somebody s under arrest, if anybody interferes, they go to jail too, Martin told them. Well, I don t know this. I m 15 years old, Craig s daughter replied.Craig responds: He got mad at me for saying what I said. That s why he did it. But it s all recorded, it s all recorded. Martin served a 10-day suspension and has since returned to work. He is appealing his suspension with the city s Civil Service Commission.How dare @fortworthpd reinstate Officer William Martin? This is a clear abuse of power, assault, and battery. He should be arrested. https://t.co/KbVxiW1eRgA disciplinary report submitted to the commission said Martin violated department policy by using excessive force and failing to thoroughly investigate. Other findings included neglect of duty, being discourteous to the public and conduct prejudicial to good order.Fort Worth Police Chief Joel Fitzgerald said earlier this month that Martin violated policy and is sorry for his behavior. Fitzgerald said he has asked Martin, who will also be required to undergo additional training, to go back into the same community to repair relationships. Dear @FortWorthPD, Thank you for arresting the neighbor. Thank you for dropping the charges on this family. NOW FIRE OFFICER MARTIN. https://t.co/cmrg4DQzp1@ShaunKing @fortworthpd god I hope they sue for $5m and win.Africa News Agency