Every morning, upon waking, feels like a miracle these days. Oh, one thinks to oneself, one is still here, we are all still here. The world is still here. This is the Age of Trump, after all, and it may be the doorway that leads to the post-anthropocene, the era after this 12,000-year-old inter-glacial civilisation we are both the product of and so addicted to.In 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968), Stanley Kubrick sketches an allegory of human progress titled "The Dawn of Man", tracing our species shift from the precarious existence of its antecedents to the revolution of using tools. We, in 2017, may be on the precipice of an analogous sequence on the other end of the spectrum: "The End of Humanity".Barely 10 days into his tenure Donald Trump, the 45th president of the United States of America, has alarmed many in the rest of the world with his actions. His "Muslim ban", the executive order he issued placing travel restrictions on people from a specific group of Muslim-majority countries, has drawn the ire of people living in the US, but also from across a broad spectrum of individuals and groups across the world. That it was issued on International Holocaust Memorial Day seemed a particularly vulgar and plotted note of disdain. Many of us who grew up learning about the horrors of the Shoah, and beyond them, the horrors of the Herero Holocaust in German Southwest Africa (now Namibia), felt a terrible chill at the choice of day for this announcement. The choice seemed deliberate, and to pour salt into old, unhealed wounds.The scenes that played out across screens and social media platforms of ordinary people in the US rushing to airports to protest the consequences of the executive order, which left many in limbo, and of lawyers walking about those airports with signs offering their services to the families of people who may have been affected by the order were heartening. This time, those scenes promised, could be different.People recalled the memory of the world s indifference and hostility to the plight of European Jews in the 1930s. Jewish groups broke the Sabbath to go to the airports. The cry "Never again!' needed to be heeded. One story detailed a five-year-old boy held for hours in the new limbo, separated from parents who were not informed of his status. One woman, once released, was generous enough to say that the officials had been nice people.But of course, behind this terrible skein, Trump quietly changed the composition of his National Security Council. He removed the chairperson of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and another senior intelligence official, and replaced them with his own White House adviser, Steve Bannon. The reverberations around the world have yet to fully register.Earlier that week the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists had shifted its Doomsday Clock to two-and-a-half minutes to midnight, the closest it has been since the 1950s. Trump s spokesperson, Kellyanne Conway, had introduced the world to the concept of "alternative facts", which echoed the dystopian horrors of George Orwell s 1984 (1949). The White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, had his own set of troubles in relation to those "alternative facts", which one presumes is just meant to be lying about lies.The Trump administration s latest outrage is the firing of the acting attorney-general over compliance with the executive order that was stayed by a federal judge after an application by the American Civil Liberties Union. The sequence of events recalls a scene in Tony Kushner s Angels in America (1993). In Mike Nichols's television adaption from 2003, Al Pacino s Roy Cohn, a McCarthy-era lawyer dying of Aids-related complications in Reagan s America, outlines a vision of American politics dominated by conservative interests. The vision Cohn projects is for the 1990s, but Nichols s miniseries dates from the first term of the George W Bush presidency. Fourteen years later, it seems, Roy Cohn s utopia, of an ultra-conservative Republican Party in control of the White House, the Senate and the Congress, and with the ability to populate the Supreme Court and all subsidiary courts with its preferred pro-conservative candidates, has become our dystopian reality.Quo vadis? We seem to be caught somewhere between two film versions of The Manchurian Candidate (1962 and 2004) and another Kubrick film, Dr Strangelove (1964). Impunity and irrationality seem to be the two dominant settings of the new US administration. The rest of the world looks on, almost powerless in the face of the might of the empire that is the United States, even as it seems to be dis-uniting. The defiance of its immediate neighbours, and the preparations being made by the United States' more distant competitors, give many hope beneath their fear. The resistance inside the United States, from its citizens and its civilian institutions, also give hope to the many of us looking on from afar. The scenes of ordinary people offering to help will hopefully spur the legislators in the US Senate and the US Congress to do their duty, and check an executive defying court orders.After all, 96 percent of us could live or die by the decisions of the select few put in power by the minority among the 4 percent of the population of the United States. This is the stuff of nightmares. We are teetering towards a precipice, just as the clock is ticking towards midnight. We are still here. Resistance to our own and collective extinction is not yet futile.eNCA