BLOEMFONTEIN – The findings of an independent inquiry into racially-charged violence that erupted in February last year at a protest at Shimla Park in Bloemfontein and sparked unrest at the University of the Free State (UFS) have been released. The team, led by former Constitutional Court Justice Johann van der Westhuizen and advocates Mduduzi Skhosana, Molebogeng Kekana and Phoebe Labuschagne. Labuschagne, a State advocate with the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), released the 90-page document detailing witness accounts, conclusions and recommendations regarding unrest on the campus. Evidence leader Skhosana invited willing participants to submit oral, written, or video testimony during the official hearings. The report described victimisation of student activists, the dismissal of student workers, poverty of students and workers on campus, unequal privileges and contributing factors that led up to the violence. The Shimla Park incident, in which black student protesters were allegedly attacked by their white counterparts at a rugby match, led to a campus-wide shutdown. The investigation found that "the behaviour of the white audience members who attacked the protesters from the stands, that left some unconscious, was violent, racist and barbaric". The panel also found that a lack of decisive leadership and police responses as well as unresolved unrest between employers and workers led to the eventual sustained unrest on campus. The report describes conflict between former vice-chancellor Jonathan Jansen and UFS SRC president Lindokuhle Ntuli. It also commented on Ntuli's controversial social media posts, calling white people "white bastards", that were eventually declared to not be hate speech. Aside from the independent inquiry, the SRC and the Institute for Reconciliation and Social Justice on campus introduced a series of talks that led to a colloquium on the decolonisation of the curriculum, white privilege, black consciousness and alternate funding models for higher education to bring calm to the campus. eNCA