JOHANNESBURG Retired Constitutional Court judges Dikgang Moseneke and Albie Sachs launched their books at the Apartheid Museum on Saturday.They highlighted the importance of respecting the constitution and each other.They even went as far as dismissing growing talk that the democratic dispensation was a sell-out. I urge you young people to be able to understand that we have done a lot. The notion that the 1994 arrangement was a total sellout is a false one. It s a wrong one. It s becoming quite popular and it s said quite often that Nelson Mandela has sold out. Again, false. But was everything done? No. In the last 22 years, no, said Moseneke.Sachs described the Fees Must Fall protesters as the heirs of their struggle.READ: Dikgang Moseneke hangs up judicial robe, says racism is a powder keg We ve all been impacted on by the student protesters and it s shocking and distressing to see library burnt, books being burnt. But that s just one part of the story and just one part of protest actions. The heart is their passion and the students are not saying how can I become rich, how can I become important, how can I get on They re saying how can I be a full human being, said Sachs.Restoration of land has been an issue for years. Many still have not been able to claim land that was stolen from them during apartheid. There have been land claims forever and bureaucratic inefficiency. So communities after communities have been waiting for restoration of land but still has not happened. So if there s one area we have to go and work hard, that is the area. Why? It s going to restore dignity to so many people, said Moseneke.INTERVIEW: Albie Sachs talks 'We, the People'Moseneke also spoke on US President Donald Trump. I ve always understood my task to be to help create a good society. I must understand, interpret and seek implementation of the law in a way that advances the society the constitution wants. So in short it is a tool in the hands of all of us in order to advance a good society. If it depresses, if it authorise killings, it authorises as Trump thinks it should, torture, then it is no law. eNCA