JOHANNESBURG - The Law Society of South Africa (LSSA) and its constituent members, the Black Lawyers Association, the National Association of Democratic Lawyers and the Cape Law Society, have called on the ANC to protect the Constitution and the rule of law. It was responding to the ANC Youth League in KwaZulu-Natal's accusations that judges are trying to determine the outcome of the party's elective conference. READ: KZN ANCYL says judiciary is trying to unseat Zuma “These judges must stay in their lane,” Thanduxolo Sabela, the KZN ANCYL secretary, said on Wednesday. The LSSA implored the ANC in a statement to openly support the judiciary and respect the courts and their judgments. The organisation called on the governing party to rebuke the youth league and those who attack and criticise the Judiciary undeservedly "including personal attacks on judges and unwarranted accusations of overreaching and partiality with ludicrous threats of impeachment".  Not-for-profit organisation Freedom Under Law has also bemoaned the criticism of the judiciary. Its director Johann Kriegler, a former judge of the Constitutional Court, said: “The politicians are understandably upset but they do not understand the function of the court. The court is not involved In politics, the court is involved in the legal issues, the constitutional issues. "The court found that the president has to pay from his own pocket. That’s not a political issue, it’s a judicial issue.  I agree with the BLA that it is unfortunate that the objectivity of the court has been brought into question in these circumstances. I do believe that the public figures who’ve made these comments are doing harm, I hope unintentionally.” The LSSA statement asked that the ANC "restore the status and dignity of the National Prosecuting Authority so that it can serve as an independent and trusted light in the search for truth and justice for all persons in our country". "Level with the people of South Africa as to the true intentions behind the state of emergency regulations, a media tribunal and our country’s withdrawal from the International Criminal Court." The LSSA called for open support and strengthening of Chapter 9 institutions; leadership, responsibility and accountability. It also asked that the ANC deal with corruption and ensure the remedial action of the Public Protector is implemented, and called for an end to frivolous appeals that waste taxpayer's funds. eNCA