PRETORIA – Mamelodi Sundowns increased their unbeaten run to seven league games and enhanced their lead at the top of the league table as they beat Bloemfontein Celtic 4-1 in an Absa Premiership match played at the Loftus Stadium in Pretoria on Saturday afternoon. Sundowns took the lead in the 47th minute when substitute midfielder Thokozani Sekotlong launched himself to head home a corner kick. In the 54th minute, the former CAF African Champions League winners doubled their lead after another midfield kingpin, Tiyani Mabunda, collected a one-two return pass from Oupa Manyisa, before firing the ball home. Celtic, who battled to get any form of ball possession at the start of the second period, managed to pull a goal back in the 63rd minute courtesy of defender Ronald Pfumbidzai, after some fine build-up play, which saw the initial shot rattle the Sundowns upright. As Celtic pushed players forward in search of the equaliser, Themba Zwane played Percy Tau into the box to slot home Sundowns’ third goal of the afternoon and the striker’s sixth of the season. In the dying minutes of the game, Zwane wrote his name on the scoresheet with Celtic caught out by an impressive Sundowns counter-attack. Sundowns predictably dominated the first 45 minutes of the match, with a rasping left-footed effort from Tau connecting with the Celtic upright in the 18th minute. Home team midfielder and skipper Hlompho Kekana tried his best to grab the headlines with a shot from well inside his own half, after he spotted Celtic No 1 Patrick Tignyamb off his line, but the Cameroonian goalkeeper managed to control the long-range effort with relative ease. READ: Castro set to join Kaizer Chiefs next year Celtic striker Victor Letsoala had two superb scoring chances against the run of play in the final ten minutes of the first half. First Sundowns centre back Motjeka Madisha allowed a high ball to bounce and it spun away to Letsoala who put his shot wide of the target. Then on the stroke of half-time, Letsoala received a defence-splitting pass down the middle but Madisha did enough to force the former Baroka goal-getter to rush his shot and put it wide, with only goalkeeper Denis Onyango to beat. Sundowns, now on 28 points from 13 games, will end their 2017 with possibly their toughest league challenge in recent times, when they host second-on-the-log Cape Town City on Tuesday. Celtic, who remain on 19 points from 13 games, will be at home to Supersport United on Wednesday. African News Agency