JOHANNESBURG - South Africa’s Dylan Frittelli will have to take a rain check in his bid to book his invite to the first Major of 2018, after a tie for 20th at the Indonesian Masters on the Asian Tour on Sunday. England’s Justin Rose was a class apart as he finished on an incredible 29-under to claim an eight-shot victory. The 27-year-old needed to finish 10th or better at the event to improve his world ranking to inside the top-50 from his current position of 55th. Frittelli carded impressive rounds of 67, 69 and 67 after a disappointing opening four-over 76 to finish at nine-under for the tournament. READ: Frittelli signs off in R8.5m style in Turkey Every player inside the top-50 at the end of the calendar year in the world books an invite to the Masters at Augusta, and that was Frittelli’s sole aim for teeing up at the event. The Indonesian Masters was also the seventh event in a row that Frittelli had played – as he tried to make the most of his red-hot form. Playing so many weeks consecutively though, may well have caught up with him – which could account for his poor first round. Frittelli though, will still have until the end of March to get his ranking inside the top-50. The Masters, which will take place from April 5 to April 8, will have its final exemptions cutoff a week before the event. READ: Fantastic Fritelli soars back into top 100 in world rankings It would be no surprise if Frittelli maintains his lofty place in the upper echelons of world golf, as his rise in 2017 has been nothing short of meteoric. At the end of 2016, he was ranked 152nd and therefore is close to improving his ranking by 100 places this year. He finished the 2017 European Tour season in 19th position on the Race to Dubai moneylist – an incredibly impressive feat in his rookie season on the tour. The highlight of his season would be his maiden European Tour victory at the the Lyoness Open in Austria in June, although he came close to topping that when he finished second at the Turkish Airlines Open behind Rose at the beginning of November. With the 2018 European season already underway, Frittelli has already picked up his second victory on tour with his win at the Mauritius Open just over two weeks ago.  African News Agency