JOHANNESBURG – The Congress of South African Students (Cosas) in Johannesburg has called on Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga to step down as she has "failed" the pupils of South Africa. Cosas Johannesburg chairperson Penuel Maduna labelled Motshekga a "threat" to pupils in an open letter he released on Sunday. “When are you stepping down? For you have failed us and continuously subject us to an education system that prepares us to be job seekers instead of job creators and on top of that embarrass us by publishing our results,” he wrote. Maduna said the Limpopo textbook crisis and other “unheard stories” indicated that the department should adopt paperless classrooms, but Motshekga had “failed to realise that”. “Being a minister should not only be about salary and status but should rather be about serving the interests of the majority and in some cases also catering for the minority,” he wrote. Maduna attached what he claimed was a response from Motshekga. READ: Should Angie stay or should she go? Motshekga allegedly said: “You are clearly not doing well at school and in life and are looking for a distraction. I don’t know you and don’t take instructions from you. Pull yourself together and get a life. “Life can be long and painful for losers. You have time and opportunities, do something positive about your young life and don’t distract yourself with adults who have successful academic, social and political life…. At my age no fool can tell me something about myself which I don’t know,” the minister allegedly wrote. Maduna then responded that he was doing well at school and that Motshekga should be concerned about pupils not doing well. LISTEN: Motshekga hits back at ANCWL “During the books scandal your focus on ANC political battles and your undying love for factionalism made you forget about your duties, and things have not changed today. “We are even shocked that Deputy President (Cyril) Ramaphosa has agreed that you become his lobbyist in Gauteng because you are not only a threat to students but the future of which these students will be part, but perhaps that’s the nature of politics where the worst become the best,” he wrote. Open Letter to Angie Motshekga by Penuel Maduna by eNCA.com on Scribd eNCA