JOHANNESBURG – The ANC’s stalwarts and veterans say South Africa needs a comprehensive, honest evaluation of how the country can break away from undemocratic practices from within. South Africa has a constitution that is internationally recognised as progressive and a model that many would wish to emulate. In a statement, the ANC stalwarts and veterans said: "In any country that is a constitutional democracy there are occasions when the decisions of the elected representatives will be tested in the courts. This ensures the laws of a country are constitutionally sound." READ: ANC stalwarts want direct voting of party leaders "Some elected representatives will also have to have their time in court because they have broken a law and have failed to uphold the trust the electorate has placed in them. No rational person would argue that there is judicial overreach when an elected representative finds themselves in prison because they have been caught stealing." The ANC on Saturday started their elective conference against a backdrop of court action by members who feel the constitution of the movement and the national constitution have been violated in the election of delegates to conference and the provincial decision-making processes. The stalwarts and veterans believe this is a clear articulation of but one of the many challenges the ANC movement faces. READ: 'For the Sake of our Future': stalwarts call for renewal of ANC "What is needed is a comprehensive, honest evaluation of how we can break from undemocratic practices within our movement and ensure that we have a political party where its membership, and especially its leadership are always beyond reproach." READ: ANC stalwarts go at it alone The ANC stalwarts and veterans say delegates should be guided by the policy of the ANC on corruption from the Mangaung conference, five years ago when making decisions at this elective conference. "This conference called for urgent action against leaders and members of the ANC who face damaging allegations of improper conduct. In addition, conference clearly stated the abuse of power and office for private gain or factional interests must be prevented." "We all know there has been no "urgency" to tackle the abuse of power. As part of “state capture”, law enforcement agencies and the national prosecuting authority have been contaminated, paralysed and unable to perform their duties without fear or favour." The elective conference will be seen to have ignored the clarion call of the people if any person elected to positions of power are tainted with relationships that are corrupt, according to the ANC stalwarts and veterans. eNCA