JOHANNESBURG – Social media has criticised Rhodes University for expelling two student activists for life on “conduct beyond lawful boundaries.” The charges by the institution stem from a protest against rape culture at the university a year ago. According to Rhodes University, the two led a mob that dragged four students suspected of sexual offences. It charged them with kidnapping, assault, defamation and insubordination, before handing down a life ban. LISTEN: Rhodes rape reflective of sexual assault culture in SA A hashtag on social media has since been created and many people are voicing out their frustrations at the decision to expel the pair. Stories of rape appeared under #Rhodeswar, with students revealing their frustrations at how the university is dealing with the issue too slowly. The university lambasted the hashtag, saying it was as a “gross misrepresentation of facts and cynical attempts at manipulating public opinion by some of the students who have been excluded from the university for committing criminal acts.” A rapist (Jason) WHO WAS FOUND GUILTY OF SEXUAL ASSAULT GRADUATED AT RHODES. Black Womxn who protested against rape DID NOT GRADUATE. NOR CAN THEY CONTINUE THEIR STUDIES ANYWHERE ELSE. This is war. #RhodesWar Raped at Rhodes University 4th of August, 2017.
		
		Reported my case and applied for extended Leave of Absence (and had to deregister) bcs I couldnt cope. They said they can only investigate once I reregister as a student in 2018.
		
		I'm not going back. Forget it #RhodesWar Rhodes is sending a very loud message that if and when you get raped, don't you dare name and shame your rapist. Us we are inspired by #LionMama. All crimes have their price. The purging of Black Womxn must stop. #RhodesWar #RhodesWar
		I was gang raped on Rhodes university campus on April 7th, 2017
		A whole entire counseling center manager wanted evidence
		I have given up on the case, I mean, if a rapist gets a 10year ban and activists a life ban, what am I bound to get as a victim??? I will NOT be naming the white boy who killed a black girl, & left her to die outside of the Rat&Parrot in 2015.
		Not because I dont believe in naming & shaming but because his father is a big shot DBN lawyer & Im a poor black womxn who can't afford defamation charges #RhodesWar The university is standing by its decision, saying the sanctions were consistent with three court rulings, one in the high court, another in the Supreme Court of Appeal as well as in the Constitutional Court. Rhodes Exclusions a Result of Criminality, No Student Excluded for Protesting pic.twitter.com/C4JUzchhch eNCA