JOHANNESBURG – Hundreds of babies were welcomed into the world on Monday, Christmas Day, at different hospitals across South Africa. Gauteng has seen 145 births so far, followed by Limpopo with 54 and KwaZulu-Natal with 50 babies. In the Western Cape, 45 babies have been born at government facilities. The newborns arrived between midnight and 4pm at state-run hospitals and clinics. Staff at Kalafong Hospital in Atteridgeville, Tshwane, worked overnight to welcome the babies into the world. The first Christmas baby born at Kalafong Hospital arrived at three minutes past midnight.
	Gauteng's Health MEC Gwen Ramakgopa praised those working in healthcare facilities over the festive season. “The hospital works 24 hours and today, we want to thank all the health workers that are on duty from the hospitals, from clinics, from emergency medical services and also from head office, there is always someone on duty, as well, to support,” the MEC said. In KZN, the department of health said MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo and the acting head of the department, Dr Musa Gumede, handed over gifts, which include baby clothes, nappies and blankets to four mothers and their Christmas Day babies. READ: What's in a name? SA's most popular baby names revealed The department said 50 babies had been born by 10am, with 26 girls and 24 boys making their arrival. Dhlomo expressed his concern that at King Edward VIII Hospital, one of the mothers had never attended an antenatal clinic and had therefore not been booked to deliver. “That is not a good story to tell because, in this province, we want to make sure that mothers deliver healthy babies. [Not attending antenatal clinics] makes the delivery very risky. Antenatal clinics should be non-negotiable because when we know your condition as a mother when we detect any challenges early, even if you are HIV positive, we can guarantee your safety and that of your baby,” said Dhlomo. He said it was worrying that three of the Christmas Day mothers, who gave birth at Murchison, Newcastle and Mahatma Gandhi hospitals, were 16-year-old girls. “We are always concerned when young people fall pregnant at a young age because it is very unsafe. If you’re a young person under the age of 18 and you’re delivering a big baby, which does happen, chances of delivering safely are slim. It actually places the mother’s own life and the baby’s in danger.” The MEC called on young people to either abstain from sex or use dual protection, which included a combination of condoms and female contraceptive methods in order to avoid unplanned or unwanted pregnancies. African News Agency