JOHANNESBURG - Three people were killed, including a 10-year-old boy, and nine others injured on Tuesday morning when four vehicles collided on the N1 highway in the Cape Winelands, between Worcester and Rawsonville in the Western Cape. “ER24 paramedics, along with Life Healthcare and other services, arrived on the scene to find four wrecked vehicles in the middle of the highway. All four vehicles had sustained a significant amount of damage in the collision,” ER24 spokesperson Russell Meiring said in a statement. “Local authorities began to close off the highway and divert traffic, in an operation lasting two hours.” READ: Nine injured in Gauteng road accidents Meiring said upon closer inspection, paramedics found a woman lying trapped inside a light motor vehicle while a man as well as a boy and girl, both believed to be 10-years-old, were found lying outside the same vehicle. “In a second vehicle, a man was found lying motionless and trapped while another man was found lying outside the vehicle. Six other patients were found walking around on the scene.” Meiring said paramedics assessed the patients and found that the woman and boy had sustained fatal injuries while the man and girl were found to be in a critical condition. “Paramedics immediately began their treatment of the patients and initiated CPR and advanced life support interventions on the lifeless woman. Unfortunately, after some time, no vital signs returned and both the woman and boy were declared dead.” READ: DA MP dies in KZN accident He said the man lying trapped inside the second vehicle was assessed and found to have sustained numerous injuries and showed no signs of life while the man lying outside of the vehicle was found to be in a critical condition. “Unfortunately, nothing could be done for the trapped man and he was declared dead. The second man was treated for his injuries and was provided with advanced life support interventions.” Meiring said the six other patients on the scene were assessed and found to have sustained minor to moderate injuries, and were treated by paramedics on the scene. He added that once all the patients had been treated, they were transported to Mediclinic Worcester and Worcester Provincial Hospital for urgent medical attention.
	The exact details surrounding this incident are not yet known but local authorities were on the scene for further investigations. African News Agency