JOHANNESBURG - The United Democratic Movement (UDM) says it's not surprised by President Zuma's decision to appeal the state capture rulings. Zuma has filed papers in the North Gauteng High Court appealing the ruling that he is too conflicted to appoint a judge to head up an inquiry into state capture. According to the UDM's Nqabayomzo Kwanka, "We expected it because that is what President Zuma has been doing over the years, but I think what is important is for us to reconsider is that since the public protector made that recommendation, political dynamics in the ANC have changed. "It is our considered view that going forward, the deputy president of the republic should be given the responsibility to appoint the commission of inquiry, because section 90 subsection 1 of the constitution is very clear that in instances where the president of the republic is not able to discharge his constitutional duties the deputy president must act in his capacity. "Ramaphosa has to make sure that whatever promise he made during his campaign he acts on it. He made good remarks in his speech [at the conference]. He said he is going to fight against the corruption so he must show that," Kwanka said. READ: Zuma appeals state capture rulings on 20 grounds The Democratic Alliance (DA) said it is appalled that Zuma wants to appeal the ruling, but not particularly surprised by the decision. "Mr Zuma is following his own well-beaten track of appealing anything or everything that goes against him in the courts," said DA MP James Selfe.  "His grounds of appeal were well traversed by the Gauteng North High Court, and there is nothing original in them. He is simply playing for time; delaying the inevitable, and wasting the time of the courts. He clearly wants to delay the appointment of the commission for as long as possible, so that witnesses can forget and evidence can be destroyed. The DA called on Ramaphosa to "assert his authority and end this farce" by recalling Zuma from the position of president of the republic. 
	  eNCA