DURBAN - Bidvest Wits and Bloemfontein Celtic will do battle for the right to be crowned 2017 Telkom Knockout champions, when they clash in the final of this year’s competition at the Princess Magogo Stadium in KwaMashu on Saturday evening. Reigning league champions the Clever Boys have endured a terrible start to their league campaign, but have got things right in the TKO thus far and progressed to their first League Cup final since 2011. Wits overcame Free State Stars, Baroka FC and Kaizer Chiefs in the first three rounds of the competition. Last season’s Absa Premiership and MTN8 champions are aiming to clinch what would be a third cup title, to add to the trophies they won in 1985 and 1995. Siwelele won their only Telkom Knockout title five years ago, beating Mamelodi Sundowns in the 2012 showpiece. Phunya Sele Sele will be aiming to add to that triumph following victories over SuperSport United, Platinum Stars and Polokwane City – the first and third matches were decided by post-match penalties, as they now set their sights on holding the TKO title aloft once more. READ: Bloem Celtic oozing confidence ahead of Telkom KO final against Wits This TKO final will be the 11th cup meeting between Wits and Celtic since 1985. The first 10 were dominated by the Clever Boys, who claimed eight outright wins (plus one via penalties) and suffered just one defeat. The teams’ last knockout clash was in the first round of the 2016 Nedbank Cup, with the Johannesburg side winning 1-0 at home thanks to a goal from striker James Keene, who helped the club into the showpiece with a header against the Amakhosi in the semifinals of this year’s competition. Phunya Sele Sele and Bidvest Wits have been regular adversaries over the years and have gone head-to-head on 66 occasions across all competitions. Their most recent clash ended in a 1-0 win for the Free State outfit in early October, thanks to a goal from Roggert Nyundu. Key players for Wits include Amr Gamal. READ: Princess Magogo Stadium to host TKO final The Egyptian forward has had an immediate impact in Braamfontein and will now be hoping to land his first title on South African soil, following the success he achieved at Al Ahly. The mobile forward plays an integral role for Hunt’s men – not only in finishing off chances, but also in creating space in behind the defensive line. Reeve Frosler is another to watch. The fullback has enjoyed a stellar rise since breaking into the Clever Boys first team and will be aiming to continue that trend as the club set their sights on more silverware. For Celtic, Deon Hotto could be a trump card. The Namibian wing-wizard is Siwelele’s main source of creativity with his speed and trickery causing South African defenders all sorts of problems. Patrick Tignyemb could be another big influence on the match. African News Agency