JOHANNESBURG – Interim head coach Simphiwe Dludlu wants the South African Under-17 women’s team (Bantwana) to get up to speed with their sharpness ahead of the second-leg clash of the World Cup qualifier against Botswana at the Dobsonville Stadium on Saturday (start at 3pm). Bantwana held their first training session on Tuesday to kick-start preparations for the 2018 FIFA Under-17 tournament. The two nations met in the first leg almost two weeks ago at the Lobatse Sports Complex before taking a break with South Africa holding a 5-2 lead. & Dludlu had called up 24 players, but is now left with 23 after Sibulele Holweni of (Sophakama Ladies – Eastern Cape) missed her flight. She has since been left out of the squad. The players looked energetic at their first training session at the University of Johannesburg Grounds in Soweto. “They are looking good, but not as sharp as I would like them to because they had a week’s break and some have taken longer to get back into the action.  “In our first training session, we tried to do a lot of coordination and reminded them that we are back to the game again. We haven’t started with the hard work but we already have a proper structure as to what we want to do to prepare for Saturday,” said Dludlu. “I was impressed with the way they welcomed each other, you could see they are excited to be back together – that is an indication that there are more relationships being built – that’s what I want because a happy team means we can get some work done, so far we are still work in progress.” Dludlu is also happy to have all her players back that participated in the 2017 Sasol League National Championship that was held in Nelspruit last week. The players are: Yenzokuhle Ngubane, Yolanda Nduli, Sphumelele and Thubelihle Shamase (all Sunflower FC – KZN); Karabo Dlamini and Oratile Mokwena (both Mamelodi Sundowns – Gauteng), Precious Choshi (Kanatla Ladies – Limpopo); as well as Thembelihle Masibi (De’Scorpion – North West). “There is a bit of imbalance but the good thing is that the last games for those players was on Thursday, which means they have had some rest before reporting for national team duty.”  The 2018 FIFA Under-17 Women’s World Cup will be held in Uruguay from November 20 to December 13.  African News Agency