PARIS - From German political colossus Helmut Kohl to rock pioneer Chuck Berry, here are some of the personalities who passed away this year. Politics  - January 7: Former president Mario Soares, seen as the father of Portugal's modern-day democracy, aged 92 in hospital. - January 8: Iran's former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a pugnacious moderate, aged 82 following a heart attack. - February 1: Longtime DR Congo opposition chief Etienne Tshisekedi, aged 84, in Brussels, where he had gone for medical treatment. - March 3: Haiti's former president Rene Preval, an agronomist and champion of the poor, aged 74 after a cardiac arrest. - March 21: Martin McGuinness, a one-time Irish Republican Army (IRA) commander who helped negotiate an end to the conflict in Northern Ireland, aged 66 in hospital from a rare heart condition. - May 26: Zbigniew Brzezinski, the hawkish Polish-born former top aide to US president Jimmy Carter, aged 89. - May 29: Former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega, 83, in a Panama City hospital. - June 16: Former German chancellor Helmut Kohl, celebrated as the father of German reunification and an architect of European integration, aged 87, at home. - June 30: Simone Veil, an Auschwitz survivor who played a leading role in legalising contraception and abortion in France, aged 89 at her Paris home. - July 13: Chinese dissident Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo, 61, from liver cancer while in custody. - September 4: Former ANC Youth League leader Sindiso Magaqa aged 35 at a Durban hospital - October 3: Iraq ex-president and Kurdish leader Jalal Talabani aged 83 in Germany. - December 4: Yemen's ex-president Ali Abdullah Saleh, ousted from power during the Arab Spring, slain by his former rebel allies, aged 75. - December 8: Laloo Isu Chiba, an MK platoon commander and one of Ahmed Kathrada's closes friend aged 87 at his home in Lenasia after a brief period of illness. READ: 'Mr Ollivander' John Hurt dies Entertainment - January 25: US television icon Mary Tyler Moore, aged 80 in hospital. - January 25: British veteran actor John Hurt, known for his roles in "Elephant Man" and "Harry Potter", aged 77 after a battle with pancreatic cancer. - February 12: Jazz's Al Jarreau, who won seven Grammy awards, aged 76, in hospital days after announcing his retirement. - March 18: American Chuck Berry, a father of rock 'n' roll, aged 90 at his home. - May 23: British actor Roger Moore, television's "The Saint" and 007 in seven James Bond films, aged 89 of cancer. - June 27: British author Michael Bond, who created Paddington bear, aged 91 at his home. - July 31: French actress Jeanne Moreau, of "Jules et Jim" fame, aged 89 at her Paris home. READ: 'Rhythm City' actor Dumi Masilela dies - August 3: Rhythm City actor Dumi Masilela aged 29 after being shot during an attempted hijacking. - August 8: US country music legend Glen Campbell, the "Rhinestone Cowboy" crooner, aged 81 suffering from Alzheimer's Disease. - August 20: American comedian and actor Jerry Lewis aged 91, at his home. - September 15: US actor Harry Dean Stanton, who played the lead role in the film "Paris, Texas", aged 91. - October 24: Rock pioneer and boogie-woogie pianist Fats Domino, at home aged 89. - December 6: France's best-known rock star Johnny Hallyday, aged 74 after a battle with lung cancer. - December 25: Renowned South African musician and producer Robbie Malinga, aged 47 after battling pancreatic cancer following months of bad health, which saw the artist hospitalised a number of times. READ: US actor Harry Dean Stanton dead at 91 Sport  - February 6: South African rugby legend Joost van der Westhuizen, aged 45, at his home after a five-year battle with motor neurone disease. Business - March 20: David Rockefeller, banker, philanthropist and heir of the powerful US dynasty, aged 101 in his sleep at home. - September 8: French fashion tycoon Pierre Berge, former partner of Yves Saint Laurent, aged 86 after a long illness at home. - September 21: The world's richest woman and l'Oreal heiress, Liliane Bettencourt, aged 94, at her home in Paris. Media - May 19: US war photographer Stanley Greene, winner of five World Press Photo awards, in a Paris hospital aged 68, after a long illness. - Veteran sports broadcaster Cebo Manyaapelo aged 50 after a long illness. Not forgetting ... - May 15: Britain's "Moors Murderer" Ian Brady, imprisoned for life in 1966 for torturing and murdering five children, aged 79, at a high-security hospital. - June 16: Christian Cabrol, a French cardiac surgeon known for performing Europe's first heart transplant, aged 91 in a Paris hospital. - November 20: Charles Manson, the cult leader behind a savage killing spree in the United States in the 1960s, aged 83 in a California hospital. AFP