JOHANNESBURG - A new circus is in town! The Fantastic Grifizzi Brothers' animal-free circus opened at Emperors Palace in Kempton Park on the East Rand on December 8, coinciding with the spectacular Garden of Lights, a winter wonderland and light extravaganza packed with festive and fun activities for the whole family. The show runs until January 15, 2018.   Conceptualised and produced by Richard Griffin and Marc Collie, the dynamic creative force behind the iconic Madame Zingara brand, The Story of the Moon is an enchanting family show with a stellar cast of beloved local and international performers who bring a magical and heart-warming tale to life through breath-taking acrobatics, side-splitting comedy and mesmeric music.   Presented in a bespoke, traditional Italian big top tent, the show is emceed by the vivacious Lilian Khumalo as Mama Circus, supported by singer Ziyanda Yako, the hilarious strong man Gilberto Salgueiro Filho and his comical sidekick, Jonathan De Lima Sbano. The stellar cast also includes Londiwe Dhlomo-Dlamini, who just returned from the Asian tour of Priscilla Queen of the Desert, and Gilberto Salguiero Filho, a fifth-generation circus artist from Brazil. Producer Richard Griffin describes the production as an inspirational story for children that parents will also find impossible to resist.  Explaining the motivation behind the magic, he said: “After adopting my two boys, I wanted to work on a project that has real meaning, to produce a creative body of work that could stand alone, make a statement and be thoroughly entertaining for young and old alike.  “And in doing so, it was equally important to break from the traditional format and take the local cirque industry one step closer to animal-free entertainment."  Griffin has always been a firm proponent of corporate social investment and is therefore thrilled to be joining forces with the Peermont group which has a strong CSI commitment.  “It was also essential that this new creative (project) would allow us to not only inspire our audiences but to also reach the communities in which we thrive, with a special focus on the children who embody our future,” he said. eNCA