JOHANNESBURG – As 2017 draws to a close, the dawn of 2018 brings a range of festivities around South Africa. For those who fled to the coast and for those who plan to be out and about on the eve of the new year, here are the top 5 places to be to welcome 2018: 1) Time Square Block Party, New Year's Eve 2017 Be there or be square in Pretoria East, for 15 hours of live entertainment, 13 local acts and international DJ’s. Dj’s that will be ringing in 2018 include Black Coffee, Dino Bravo, Kent and Euphonic. Jazzy D , Ready D, Black Motion, Mac G, Harrison Crump (from USA) Ayanda MVP, Vin Deysel, Ralf Gum (from Germany) and Cocoa Chanelle ( from USA) will also grace the stage. The event will take place at Sun Arena, Menlyn Maine in Pretoria. Ticket details are available at https://online.computicket.com/web/. 2) Ballito New Year's Eve Street Party Looking for a magical journey through time and music? Balito is the place to be this new years eve. This coastal party sets the perfect scene to welcome 2018. This year’s street party has been revamped into a more intimate and decorative setting, unlike the tradional parties that have been happening for 13 years. There will be 3 dance floors and trendy SA Dj’s. The event takes place at Sandra Road & Crush Night Club in Durban. Tickets range from R250-R500. For more info, visit https://www.webtickets.co.za/events/featured/ballito-new-years-eve-street-party/1474048280. READ: Solange pulls out of Afropunk Joburg 3) Unyaka Festival 
	If you are looking for a tribal vibe to usher in 2018, then the Unyaka outdoor festival is the perfect place for you to stomp in the new year. The event includes activities like sculpting and craft making, as well as three music stages. The festivak will take place in the nestled forest near Weighbridge. This year’s event features an entirely new Psy Village and ever more adventure and entertainment for Unyakarians. Visit the Unyaka Festival facebook page for more details https://www.facebook.com/UnyakaFestivalKZN/. 4)  The Joburg Carnival & New year’s Countdown The annual new year’s countdown will be taking place from midday at the corner of Klein and Kotze street, so if you cannot make the festivities of the Afropunk Festival happening at Constitution Hill, you can make your way to Mary Fitzgerald Square in Newtown to join the likes of Euphonic, Tjovitjo, The Soil, Nadia Nakai, Bucie, Samthing Soweto, KO, Reason, Ms Cosmo, and many more. There will be no alcohol permitted at the event and entrance is free. Follow the #JoburgCarnival17 hashtag on twitter to track the details of the carnival. eNCA