JOHANNESBURG – The African National Congress (ANC) will proceed despite a number of court rulings directly impacting the conference, party spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said on Friday. Three important court judgments were delivered on the eve of the 54th National Conference, which kicks off at Nasrec on Saturday. The provincial elective conferences held in KwaZulu-Natal and the Free State were declared null and void. A court also ruled 38 branch general meetings in the North West were also declared invalid. The three provinces are all Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma strongholds. READ: Bojanala judgment has no impact on national conference: Mantashe The first legal blow was delivered at the High Court sitting in Rustenburg where the court set aside the branch general meetings and nullified the Bonajala regional conference. This was the North West Province's biggest voting bloc. ANC North West Secretary Dakota Legoete said: “We had put forward a good case. It's just unfortunate that you can’t confirm how judges rule.” Legoete confirmed it would appeal the ruling. The judgment was clear – the processes of choosing delegates for the national conference are invalid, unlawful and subsequently set aside. This means the delegates from those 38 branches are not fit to attend the conference. But the provincial leadership is having none of it 
	“It has no effect on the national conference because the process of preparation towards the regional conference is what was challenged before the court. That particular process came before we started with the process of preparations for the national conference. That is the status for now. So the national conference delegation is not affected. We are proceeding to the national conference,” Legoete added. Secretary General Gwede Mantashe, speaking at a press briefing in Nasrec, acknowledged the judgment but said the ANC intended to appeal an aspect of the judgment. “What we are going to be looking at iS, for example, the judgment says those delegates should not participate in any other activity of the organisation. That's the only basis that we'll appeal judgment on because you can’t give a judgment on a conference and ban ANC members from participating in their political party they're voluntarily joining. On that one, the judges misled us. That one we're going to challenge,” Mantashe added. WATCH: ANC KZN leaders out of conference A bit later, it was KwaZulu-Natal ANC’s turn. A September court decision to nullify the province’s 2015 conference was upheld. This judgment means KwaZulu-Natal will not have the 27 Provincial Executive Commmittee (PEC) members who are meant to attend as voting delegates, meaning only the originally allocated 870 can vote. ANC KwaZulu-Natal Chairperson Sihle Zikalala says the PEC will abide by today's court ruling. Zikalala says they intend to appeal, but only after the national elective conference. “We have taken a view that we are not going to participate here as PEC delegates, we don’t want it to be an issue and have the conference be stuck on credentials about the status of the KwaZulu-Natal PEC. Accepting the loss of the PEC’s voting rights is one thing, but vacating office is quite another and it remains unclear at this stage if Zikalala and his colleagues will vacate Pixley ka Seme House. The gavel also came down in the Free State. WATCH: Free State ANC PGC ruled unlawful It was de ja vu for the province’s controversial chairperson, Ace Magashule, whose status as an elected leader was struck down by a court on the eve of the 2012 national conference. It also means 14 Branch General Meetings (BGMs) held in late November, as well as the decisions they took, are also unlawful and void. Those branch delegates may not attend the gathering. Like KwaZulu-Natal, the Free State will also lose its 27 PEC votes and the province’s delegate count will revert to the original 409, minus those from the nullified 14 branches. It is not known exactly how many delegates are affected by the rulings, as different branches send varying numbers of delegates to the national conference. According to Kodwa, the ANC will not tolerate any ill-dicipline or disruptions at the conference.  eNCA