JOHANNESBURG - Jacob Gedleyihlekisa Zuma was born in Nkandla in then-northern Natal on 12 April 1942. The eldest of five children, he has been an active member of the ANC for 58 years after joining the organisation aged 17. Zuma was influenced to get involved in politics by his older step-brother, who was a World War II soldier turned unionist and ANC member. After seeing ANC volunteers doing political work while visiting Durban, Zuma too joined the movement and started attending meetings. WATCH: Zuma's last song and dance ahead of ANC top job exit He joined the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) and South African Congress of Trade Unions (Sactu), attending meetings in Durban before spending three years from 1960 to 1963 at political school under the tutorship of Moses Mabhida and Stephen Dlamini. He was recruited to uMkhonto we Sizwe (MK) by Mabhida in 1963, after the banning of the ANC by the apartheid government a few years earlier. Zuma was arrested by security police in June 1963 while embarking on a journey to Botswana. The plan, conceived by MK, involved sending 45 new recruits for training. Zuma was arrested along with others in the Groot Marico near Zeerust, in then-western Transvaal. Detained for 90 days in solitary confinement and subject to beatings and interrogation, Zuma finally had his day in court and was sentenced to 10 years in jail for attempting to overthrow the government. WATCH: Zuma application to set aside State Capture report dismissed with costs Zuma served most of his prison sentence on Robben Island and was released on 29 December 1973, when he resumed his political activities locally but in a low-key manner. He was involved in the reestablishment of underground ANC structures in then-Natal before his primary focus shifted to ensuring safe passage for MK recruits and arms moving between Mozambique and South Africa. Zuma moved to Swaziland, where he reportedly interacted with former president Thabo Mbeki, one of his arch-rivals in his later political years. Mbeki, Albert Dlomo and Zuma were arrested in Swaziland in March 1976, but Zuma managed to avoid deportation from Swaziland and was subsequently sent to Mozambique, where he held various positions in the movement. He commanded the Mandla Judson Kuzwayo (MJK) unit, which was led by Yunis Shaik (Mandla), Moe Shaik (Judson) and Jayendra Naidoo (Kuzwayo). The unit successfully infiltrated security police in Durban, which resulted in the Apartheid government ordering their expulsion from Mozambique. In response, the ANC sent Zuma to Lusaka, Zambia, where he was made the head of its intelligence department. He, Mbeki and others were part of the negotiating team in the late 1980s and early 1990s ahead of South Africa’s transition to democracy in 1994. The ANC was unbanned in February 1990 and in March that year, he returned to South Africa flanked by Matthews Phosa and Penuell Maduna. Zuma continued his work as a negotiator with the apartheid government upon his return until Cyril Ramphosa, then ANC secretary-general convened a meeting of the National Working Committee, at which Zuma was fired from his post as head of intelligence and Mbeki was put in his place and tasked with steering negotiations. WATCH: Jacob Zuma's funniest moments In the early 1990s, Zuma was instrumental in weakening the grip on power of the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) in Natal, then the centre of political violence with ANC members. Even in his tenure as party president, KwaZulu-Natal became one of the few areas where the ANC increased its support. Zuma was instrumental in the attempt to bring peace to the area and was subsequently appointed ANC chairperson of southern Natal. By late 1990, he had left the South African Communist Party (SACP) - an organisation that would become his biggest critic during his second tenure as ANC president, to focus on the ANC. During the first elective conference of the ANC post unbanning, in December 1991, Zuma was elected to the post of deputy secretary-general and was the chairperson of the negotiations commission at the Congress for a Democratic South Africa (Codesa) talks, which ushered in a peaceful democratic transition. In 1994, Zuma was nominated as KwaZulu-Natal premier, but his party lost to the IFP in the elections. He was later appointed provincial economic affairs and tourism minister, a position he would hold until 1999. Zuma would later be appointed ANC Kwa-Zulu Natal chairperson following an elective conference in Bloemfontein. In December 1997, Zuma was appointed ANC deputy president and held the position of South African deputy president until 2005, when he was fired by then-president Mbeki. At the ANC’s dramatic 52nd elective conference in Polokwane in December 2017, Zuma made the political comeback of his life and was elected president of the ANC. Shortly thereafter, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) pursued him for corruption, money laundering and fraud charges related to South Africa's arms deals. The charges would be thrown out on procedural grounds by Pietermaritzburg High Court judge Chris Nicholson. This would pave the way for the September 2008 recall of Mbeki as head of state. Mbeki was replaced by Kgalema Motlanthe, who became South Africa’s third president. In 2009, the NPA withdrew charges against Zuma, paving the way for his rise to the most powerful job in South Africa – the president of the republic. Zuma was inaugurated as the fourth democratic president of the country at a ceremony at Pretoria’s Union Buildings in May 2009. His first term in office ran until the 2014 general elections, at which the decline in support for the ANC started, culminating in the opposition, through mostly coalition governments, taking control of large metros including Nelson Mandela Bay (Port Elizabeth), Johannesburg and Tshwane (Pretoria). Controversy seemed to follow Zuma both before and after his ANC presidency. In 2006, the Johannesburg High Court dismissed a rape charge against Zuma filed by ‘Khwezi’, later identified as Fezekile Kuzwayo, ruling there was no proof that sex was not consensual. At the time of the case, Zuma admitted to having had unprotected sex with Kuzwayo, whom he knew was HIV-positive. He infamously said he took a shower after having sex with her to cut his risk of contracting HIV. WATCH: When politics and sex collide: Ten sex scandals that rocked our world Scandals would continue following Zuma even during his tenure as party president. His long-time acquaintance and former financial adviser Schabir Shaik was slapped with a 15-year prison term but was subsequently released on medical parole after a mere 28 months in jail. Other controversies included "security" upgrades, later found to be significantly inflated, to his private Nkandla homestead in KwaZulu-Natal. A damning report by then-Public Protector Thuli Madonsela in 2014 found Zuma unduly benefitted from upgrades to his home, despite numerous denials and other investigations made by Zuma allies. He was ordered to pay back a portion of the tax money used on his home. Zuma, popularly known by his clan name, "Msholozi", again courted controversy with his close relationship with the controversial Gupta family, who have been accused of “state capture”. That debacle saw the collapse of controversial British public relations firm Bell Pottinger.  WATCH: 'I bear no grudge', Zuma says in blistering final salvo The ANC president has also been accused of eroding state institutions like the NPA and the Hawks.  What were his key successes and failures? The bad:
	Crumbling of state institutions
	Near collapse of the tripartite alliance
	Numerous court rulings against him including over the Nkandla upgrades and his attempts to quash state capture investigations The good:
	Big gains in the mass roll-out of ARV treatment for HIV-positive patients
	Announcing free higher education for poor students
	Infrastructure development
	  eNCA