JOHANNESBURG – Athletics SA (ASA) on Wednesday launched the ASA Athletix Grand Prix Series in which a total prize incentive of R1.36m is offered to athletes to produce outstanding performances. Exciting launch #AthleticsMagicMeets @StillwaterSport @AthleticsSA_ @wpathletics1 pic.twitter.com/qRCHsRxl6I This competition will feature three Grand Prix Meetings in March, one month prior to the Commonwealth Games in Australia.  South Africa’s finest will have the ideal opportunity to hone their skills in a competitive environment as part of their global preparations.   These Track & Field Meetings will take place in Johannesburg on March 1, Tshwane on March 8 and Paarl on March 22. This elite series is intended to host and attract top athletes from around the world. A new three-leg Grand Prix track and field series, to be held in March, has been announced by Athletics SA. Over R1.3 million in prize money will be up for grabs. Crucial step forward to maintain the rapid development we've seen in the sport in recent years #AthleticsMagicMeets With the standard of South African athletics showing tremendous improvement over the last few years, there is an ever-growing hunger by fans to witness some of the world’s best athletes competing on home soil.   “We are excited to announce the series which we believe restores our domestic Track & Field season right back on top where it was about a decade ago,” said Aleck Skhosana, the president of ASA. “These meetings will be explosive, entertaining and of the highest standard.”  “This is the ideal opportunity for our athletes to put in those final touches before heading off to Australia and to other international destinations to represent this country in the best possible shape.” Four of the current SA men’s sprinters have broken the 10 seconds barrier for the 100m, while two have gone below 20 seconds in the 200m.   Some of stars to expect at the @AthleticsSA_ & Athletics Grand Prix Series in 2018! @_ambitious_jay Zeney v.D Walt and R. Mlenga#AthleticsGrandPrix #ASA pic.twitter.com/s27k0vhJ2q South African record holder Akani Simbine, who had a brilliant domestic and international season last year going under 10 seconds on five occasions, is expected to continue his duel with Thando Roto in the 100m, who also dipped under 10 seconds. World champions Wayde van Niekerk (400m) – recovering from injury, Caster Semenya (800m), Luvo Manyonga (Long Jump) and world number three Ruswahl Samaai (Long Jump,) are also expected to be the highlight of the 2018 season and the Grand Prix could offer some of them the platform to take off the new season. The Athletix Grand Prix Series will be used to select athletes for the national teams African News Agency