PRETORIA – The upcoming ANC national elective conference must be used to prove that the governing party in South Africa is not corrupt and does not tolerate graft, Treasurer-General Zweli Mkhize said on Friday. “Unemployment is what people are unhappy about, in the way we run things. Corruption is the other issue and crime is another. When we get back to the people, we cannot say we know what you told us in 2014 and in 2016, but it’s still the same,” he said. “In this [December 2017] conference, we have not moved an inch in terms of addressing the problems of unemployment, fighting crime and there is no solution in dealing with corruption,” Mkhize added. “We must always remember that the issue of corruption is one of the most important scourges that we have to eliminate in our society, if we are to survive as a party, as a government and also as the people of South Africa. The South African people are not corrupt, nor is the ANC corrupt.” READ: North West ANC nominates Dlamini-Zuma for party president Addressing the three-day Gauteng ANC provincial general council (PGC) in Pretoria, Mkhize said there were “certain elements” who were corrupt and will have to be dealt with decisively. “There will be elements who are prone to corruption, who we must be able to identify and act upon. The ANC needs to be strong and resolute in the decisions we will take. What is it that we are going to do is to make sure that people can see that the ANC is actually not corrupt, and in fact, it is not tolerant to corruption. These are the challenges we are going to face,” Mkhize stated. At the same event, ANC Gauteng provincial chairperson Paul Mashatile said the proliferation of state capture in South Africa proves the lack of leadership. MAP: Track the ANC provincial nominations for party president He warned Gauteng delegates that the future of South Africa will hinge on the individuals they elect at the national conference of the governing party. “If we go to this conference and elect such people again, we will have ourselves to blame. Leaders must be brave, but they must of course lead with humility. We have learnt this from those who came before us,” said Mashatile. He charged delegates to ensure that the ANC leadership to be elected in December must not be representatives of slates and factions within the party. He also said there must also be “a generational mix” in the leaders to be elected in December. African News Agency