JOHANNESBURG - AB De Villiers and Dale Steyn make their long-awaited return to the Standard Bank Proteas Test squad for the day/night four-day Sunfoil Test match against Zimbabwe to be played at St. George’s Park, Port Elizabeth, from December 26 to 29. De Villiers’ last Test was against England at SuperSport Park during January 2016 while Steyn has been recovering from a serious shoulder injury suffered against Australia at Perth just over a year ago.  A third player, Vernon Philander, is also back in the Proteas squad after missing the most recent series against Bangladesh following an injury picked up during the winter tour to England. 
	 “It is a very exciting moment not just for South Africa but for world cricket to have Dale and AB, two icons of the game, back in the multi-day format,” commented Cricket South Africa (CSA) National Selection Panel Convener Linda Zondi. “After Zimbabwe we have two very tough home Test Series coming up against India, the No. 1 ranked side in the world, and Australia, who have just regained the Ashes in their current series against England. “AB and Dale bring loads of experience to the side apart from being two of the South African all-time greats. READ: Four Proteas batsmen in world rankings top 10 “It is also good to have Vernon back and it is very encouraging that our four premium fast bowlers – Steyn, Philander, Kagiso Rabada and Morne Morkel – are all back in the selection mix.” READ: Dale Steyn in SA team for Zim warm up clash Standard Bank Proteas Test squad: Faf du Plessis (Multiply Titans, capt), Hashim Amla (WSB Cape Cobras), Temba Bavuma (WSB Cape Cobras), Quinton de Kock (Multiply Titans), Theunis de Bruyn (VKB Knights), AB de Villiers (Multiply Titans), Dean Elgar (Multiply Titans), Keshav Maharaj (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Aiden Markram (Multiply Titans), Morne Morkel (Multiply Titans), Andile Phehlukwayo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Vernon Philander (WSB Cape Cobras), Kagiso Rabada (bizhub Highveld Lions), Dale Steyn (Multiply Titans). African News Agency