SEOUL - The lead singer of South Korea's top boy band, Shinee, died on Monday after being taken to hospital unconscious, several news outlets including the Yonhap news agency reported. Kim Jong-hyun,27, was found unconscious in a Seoul apartment, Yonhap said without giving further details. the 13 year old me is still grateful for knowing you.. you & all the shinee members just made my teenage years so happy.. thank you for sharing your talent..pic.twitter.com/QQ6fD9ytlc AFP reported that Kim had sent his older sister several text messages suggesting suicide, police said. The messages read "This is my last farewell", "Things have been so difficult", "Please let me go and say I did a good job", prompting his sister to make an emergency call to the police. A coal briquette was found burning on a frying pan in the room. The bricks release carbon monoxide, whose inhalation can be deadly. News channel YTN reported that the singer had checked into a serviced residence for two nights and was found unconscious by police. No immediate confirmation from police was available. I just remembered Lee Hi's "Breathe" written and composed by Jonghyun himself. The lyrics....https://t.co/uPJIMCgiMh pic.twitter.com/pObspKz9mW Fly high beautiful angel #JONGHYUN pic.twitter.com/n11PUWwAtJ today we lost one of the most talented artists in korea. i’m hearbroken and devastated by the news. my deepest condolences goes out to jonghyun’s family, shinee and shawols. rest in peace, kim jonghyun. thank you for everything. The five-member Shinee are one of the best-known K-pop acts globally and have enjoyed a huge following across Asia and beyond since their debut in 2008. Known for powerful dance songs and well-orchestrated choreography performed with military precision, the boyband topped the US Billboard World Albums chart several times. Kim released in 2015 his first solo album that reached number one on the Billboard World Albums chart. He also performed at solo concerts in Seoul last week. AFP