JOHANNESBURG - Laloo Isu Chiba, an MK platoon commander and one of Ahmed Kathrada's closes friends, has died, aged 87. Chiba was born and raised in Johannesburg. His interest in politics was sparked by the 1956 Treason Trial, leading him to join the Transvaal Indian Congress and later the South African Communist Party.  He joined uMkhonto we Sizwe (MK) in 1961 and was promoted to a platoon commander in 1962, and later made a member of MK's Second National High Command. In April 1963, Chiba was arrested with a number of comrades for planning to sabotage a railway line and detained under the 90-day detention law. Despite being brutally tortured to the point of beibg rendered deaf in one ear, Chiba held firm, refused to implicate his comrades and was ultimately released without charge.  In 1964, he was arrested once again and charged with sabotage and membership of a banned organisation in a trial that became known as the 'Little Rivonia'. He was sentenced to 18 years imprisonment which he served on Robben Island. READ: EFF leaders visit Robben Island, fulfilling Kathrada wish During his time on Robben Island, Chiba, alongside Mac Maharaj, was integral in helping smuggle the manuscript of Nelson Mandela’s Long Walk to Freedom out of prison.   On releasefrom prison in 1982, Chiba joined the United Democratic Front (UDF) while work underground for the ANC. During the 1985 state of emergency, he spent a further 7 1/2 months in detention.  Chiba was elected an ANC MP in the first and second democratic elections in 1994 and 1999. He was conferred with The Order of Luthuli in Silver In 2004 by the South African Government for his lifetime of work towards the struggle for a non-racial, non-sexist, just and democratic South Africa. In his latter years, Chiba was highly critical of the direction the ANC had taken and the level of corruption that penetrated the movement. Chiba was hospitalised a few days ago after suffering a mild heart attack. He was discharged this week and passed away at his home in Lenasia, south of Johannesburg. He is survived by his wife, Luxmi, three daughters and grandchildren. Funeral details have not yet been announced. - additional information supplied via SA History Archive (Saha). eNCA