CAPE TOWN – The announcement by President Jacob Zuma that government will introduce fully subsidised free higher education and training for poor and working-class undergraduate students, while welcomed, is completely uncosted and therefore must be seen for what it is, playing politics with the hopes and futures of millions of young people, the Democratic Alliance (DA) said on Saturday. “The statement is a combination of populist politicking, deceptive language, uncosted proposals, and one positively dangerous assertion,” DA spokeswoman Belinda Bozzoli said. Zuma waited until the very end of the year so that he could make a splash at the African National Congress elective conference, while students, their families, and the institutions they wished to attend anxiously awaited news. “Such cheap politicking is appalling. Unsurprisingly, his statement is full of promises, but lacking actual implementation details,” she said. READ: Zuma announces free higher education for over 90% of students Zuma had said that full-cost “free” education would be offered to poor and working-class students, students with a family income of less than R350,000. This was nothing new – it was simply a continuation of what the ANC had always said. Students from the “fees must fall” movement would be disappointed. ‘Credit agencies know’ Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba on Saturday said rating agencies were already aware of the possibility of free higher education in South Africa. “We had been engaging with the credit ratings about the possibility of a decision on higher education. If you remember at the mini-budget, we flagged higher education and the national health insurance as budget risks and we knew that they could materialise one way or another,” he said. He said the budget had not yet been finalised and that details would be given during the February budget. “We are working through the budget process to address all issues,” Gigaba added. Meanwhile, The National Youth Development Agency (NYDA) says South Africa does have the money to fund free higher education. Additional reporting eNCA African News Agency