JOHANNESBURG - What is a Range Rover SVAutobiography? Simply put, it is the most luxurious SUV to come out of the Range Rover brand. Obviously based on the Range Rover body, the SVAutobiography features exemplary luxury and comfort items that will make not only the driver feel literally at home, but also give the passengers an SUV ride like no other. It is driven by a choice of two powertrains; a 416kW supercharged V8, a 297kW plug-in hybrid and a 250kW (700Nm) SDV8. 
	The levels of craftsmanship have not been seen in this segment before, with Jaguar Land Rover’s Special Vehicle Operations (SVO) team finishing things off by hand. Some of these comfort items include the longer wheelbase which offers rear legroom of a whopping 1.2 metres in length. The rear doors close electrically at the touch of a button, requiring no hectic physical interaction with the passengers. 
	Probably the best feature for the rear passengers at least, are the Executive Class seats which recline up to 40 degrees, similar to some of Business Class sections on international flights. These feature a hot stone massage function, heated calf and foot rests, and 22-way adjustment. 
	What’s a rear lounge without its toys? Nothing. So Range Rover SVAutobiography offers the latest in this regard, including deployable tables, 4G WiFi connectivity, Touch Pro Duo infotainment system with two screens. More interesting is that information can essentially be swiped across the two to make working in tandem easier. If it’s not a working trip then there is a concealed fridge between the two seats that can take in two wine bottles or four 600ml bottles. 
	“The SVAutobiography badge identifies our most luxurious vehicles in the same way the SVR and SVX monikers denote our most potent and capable derivatives,” said John Edwards, Managing Director of Jaguar Land Rover Special Operations. “The arrival of the enhanced Range Rover SVAutobiography further strengthens the peerless luxury pillar of the SV family.” IN4RIDE