JOHANNESBURG - The conviction of 11 Democratic Republic of Congo’s (DRC) militia fighters who raped dozens of children – including an 18-month-old toddler – has been welcomed by the United Nations. The Special Representatives of the UN Secretary-General, respectively on Sexual Violence in Conflict, Pramila Patten, and for Children and Armed Conflict, Virginia Gamba, on Tuesday jointly welcomed the decision by military justice authorities in the DRC. The South Kivu Military Court last week convicted a provincial parliamentarian and members of the “Army of Jesus” militia for crimes against humanity following their rape of dozens of children between 2013 and 2016 in Kavumu, which is located in DRC’s South Kivu Province. READ: Day of protest flops but DRC opposition to fight on The court sentenced Frederic Batumike, a South Kivu provincial Member of Parliament, and 11 other persons to life in prison for the kidnapping and rapes of 38 children. In addition to life sentences for crimes against humanity for rape and murder, the court also awarded reparations to the victims. The envoys also commended civil society actors for their role. READ: UN gives $5m aid for crisis-hit region in DRC “The case demonstrates that when there is political will, well-trained government officials, civil society involvement and an engaged press, there can be justice for sexual violence,” Gamba said. Patten added that: “I am pleased that the UN Team of Experts on the Rule of Law and Sexual Violence in Conflict could be deployed to assist national authorities in the military justice system, appropriately, to ensure that the Kavumu case was prioritised in accordance with the Joint Communiqué signed by my office with the government of the DRC in 2013.” READ: EU warns DRC of election funding risk over 'harassment' For its part, the UN stabilisation mission in the DRC, known by its French acronym, MONUSCO, on Saturday applauded the life sentences handed down by that country’s authorities and called the decision a “a major landmark in the fight against impunity for sexual violence in DRC.” MONUSCO chief Maman Sidikou said the decision sends a clear signal that “no one is above the law, whatever the rank.” African News Agency