JOHANNESBURG – The South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) says the festive season can have an emotional impact on some people. According to Sadag, experts say the festive season can make people feel out of control. “We may feel at the mercy of our relatives, steamrolled by family tradition. But you do have a say and the key to surviving the holidays is to take back some control instead of giving it all away,” Sadag said. The organisation will be running an initiative on Facebook called Facebook Friday Q&A. READ: Teen suicide: there is help The Facebook Friday Q&A aims to allow people to ask questions on how to cope during the festive season, identify where you can get help and get all your questions answered by experts. You can log in and ask for free advice on the live chats with top experts for an hour. So here are five ways to help you avoid the holiday blues: 1. Be realistic and take the 'ideal' Christmas out of your head Too many people have a perfect version of what the holidays should be like, instead of what they really are. By setting realistic expectations, you are less likely to land up being disappointed. 2. Don’t be afraid to seek professional help If the holiday blues are constant and you think there may be a bigger issue, you should seek the help of a psychologist, psychiatrist or call Sadag on 0800 21 22 23. Occasionally, the holidays are when we feel the most alone. Talking to someone can beneficial whether it be a counsellor, family member, friends or even a church member that you can open up to. 3. Take a time-out from family arguments and unhappy relationships In an ideal world, we’d be friends with everyone and everyone would be friends with us. But in the real world, we get into disagreements or sometimes huge arguments with others we care about. In the spirit of the giving season, give something that is priceless -- your compassion and forgiveness (even if only temporary) to those in your life you feel have hurt you in some way. 4. Give yourself a break While rushing around the holidays, we often put ourselves last on the to-do list. We also feel guilty when we indulge in things we wouldn’t ordinarily indulge in. Give yourself a break this season, forgive your transgressions and be kind to yourself. 5. Connect with your significant other on the things that matter most One of the people we often leave out of our holiday plans is our significant other. Not physically, but often emotionally. Check in with your partner and see what his or her expectations for the holiday are, and share with them yours. You might be surprised to learn something you didn’t know. eNCA