JOHANNESBURG - The JSE closed weaker on Wednesday after Steinhoff failed to hold on to earlier gains and Naspers fell despite an investor road show in New York. A recovery in the rand boosted banks and financials toward the close. Analysts have warned of the dangers of trading in Steinhoff shares at this stage as very little information is available about the extent of the accounting irregularities in the group. READ: JSE won't suspend Steinhoff shares PricewaterhouseCoopers is to audit Steinhoff‚ but no new information about the release of the group’s results has been forthcoming. A meeting with the group’s bankers is scheduled for Tuesday. About 40 percent of Steinhoff’s shares could be affected by short positions. This meant that market players would in all likelihood take a profit on periodic rises in the group’s share price‚ which may have been what happened on Wednesday. Steinhoff rose 55.83 percent on Monday and 25.78 percent on Tuesday. Naspers closed weaker on muted investor reaction following a road show by CEO Bob van Dijk in New York on Tuesday. Van Dijk promised that the group would take measures to reduce the stock’s significant discount to fair value‚ when one takes into account its holding in Chinese internet company Tencent. READ: US law firm to probe Naspers relationship with the Guptas However‚ he said it was unlikely that the group would change its shareholder structure any time soon. Holders of ordinary shares have limited voting rights compared with the A-shareholders‚ who have extended voting rights‚ which are held in obscure controlling structures. Retailers ended the day under pressure after retail sales growth slowed to an annual 3.2 percent in October‚ from 5.7 percent in September‚ revised up from 5.4 percent. The consensus view was for growth of 5.3 percent. An early upbeat performance from platinum shares fizzled out in late trade. in the morning Anglo American Platinum announced that it had made some progress on the repositioning of its assets‚ including selling its stake in Pandora mine to Lonmin. Global markets were cautious ahead of the US Federal Reserve interest-rate decision‚ expected later in the evening. The Dow was up 0.2 percent soon after the JSE’s close but the CAC 40 had lost 0.34 percent and the DAX 30 0.11 percent. The Fed decision itself shouldn’t throw up any surprises‚ with the central bank having long suggested that it will raise interest rates once more this year‚ and investors having entirely priced it in‚ said Oanda analyst Craig Erlam. However‚ any future projections on rates next year will be keenly watched. The all-share lost 0.31 percent to 57‚344.40 points and the blue-chip top 40 0.3 percent. The platinum index lost 2.33 percent, the gold index 1.71 percent, industrials 0.56 percent, resources 0.48 percent and general retailers 0.45 percent. Banks added 1.09 percent and financials 0.43 percent. iNet Bridge