JOHANNESBURG - 2017 was filled with serious news and political developments - from the ANC's elective conference to a change in power in Zimbabwe, and President Zuma's repeated trips to court.  There were a number of stories that got people talking and smiling this year though.  WATCH: Top 10 eNCA videos in 2017 The heavy political news was, in fact, the best place to look for lighter moments this year.  Outgoing ANC President Jacob Zuma's presidency has been somewhat of a rollercoaster ride. While he'll no longer be the leader of the governing party, Zuma remains the president of the country until the 2019 national elections. eNCA.com compiled five of the most memorable moments during his tenure, which either sent many South Africans into a complete rage or had them in stitches. You can watch those videos here.  Chester Missing was arguably the real star of the ANC's elective conference in December.  After putting himself forward as candidate for the governing party's presidency, he went on to throw shade on just about everybody, including taking on the Minister of Police about sub-Tweeting himself, and was complaining about and analysing everything from the food to the voting system, and eventually admitting he was only there for the money.  All political differences were set aside for at least a little while when the EFF's Doctor Mbuyiseni Ndlozi acquired his doctorate in Philosophy in Political Studies from the University of the Witwatersrand at the beginning of December. The people\s Baeimmediatelyy became Doctor Bae, and even his political opponents wished him well on the achievement.  The EFF, either intetionally or unintentionally, can be thanked for another smile moment in 2017 - when their ubaba ka Duduzane was put to song, the internet went wild.  By the end of December, Thabo “Tboy Deflame” Moagi's track had received more than a million views on YouTube.  READ: 2017's most read news stories on eNCA.com Another story that has social media users in a frenzy, was Kenny Kunene dodging 21 bullets.  Kunene reportedly came under fire in a meeting with a friend, Sunday Independent Editor's Steve Motale - gunmen allegedly ambushed his BMW 125i and fired more than five rounds, although he escaped unharmed, No bullets holes in the car were reported. In keeping with the musical theme though, who would have pictured an elderly woman dancing to "Gqom", Durban's contemporary Kwaito? One Gogo has just proved the old adage that age is nothing but a number. This South African granny is just super cool!!!!! ---- You can trust a rapper to name himself as the singer he likes most - well if that singer is Cassper Nyovest himself. Cassper delivered his fair share of news this year, including filling up FNB stadium.  eNCA