JOHANNESBURG – The International Criminal Court’s (ICC) war crimes judges are due to hand down landmark reparations to former child soldiers conscripted into a militia in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) about 15 years ago, Kenya’s Daily Nation reports. Warlord Thomas Lubanga, 56, was found guilty in 2012 at the ICC of abducting boys and girls and press-ganging them into his Union of Congolese Patriots (UPC) in the eastern Ituri region of the DRC. He was sentenced to 14-years imprisonment and after being jailed he was subsequently transferred to a prison in the DRC to serve the rest of his sentence. Lubanga was also found personally liable for the compensation due to his victims, who at the time of the crimes in 2002-2003 were all under 15, with some as young as 11. While finding the warlord guilty was fairly straight forward, what has been more difficult is calculating the value of a lost childhood, which involved violence, bloodshed and chaos, leaving the children traumatised and scarred for life. Many of the victims are now in their 30s and parents themselves. “How do you calculate a lost youth? What it is worth? A million, half a million, five thousand euros, a thousand euros?” lawyer Luc Walleyn asked the tribunal in The Hague during hearings in 2016. Girls who were forced into the militia’s ranks were turned into sex slaves with many falling pregnant as a result. The non-governmental organisation Child Soldiers International, which works to stop children being used in conflicts, said girls they had interviewed in the DRC recounted “indescribable hardships, loneliness and terror – including daily threats of death”. The rehabilitation of the children has focused on helping victims to become independent financially, by learning to sew or raise cattle and finishing their education. The judges will also decide on Friday the number of victims entitled to reparations with some estimates concluding that up to 3,000 children may have been recruited in Lubanga’s militia. He has never acknowledged his crimes nor offered an apology. African News Agency