JOHANNESBURG - The festive season is the time for celebration and relaxation - but it's also a time when family tensions tend to be heightened.  To help guide you through this perilous time, eNCA put together a survival guide for the holidays and relatives.  READ: Five ways to avoid feeling sad this festive 1. Manage your expectations Or as US life coach and author Martha Beck says, give up hope. "The hope that our families will act perfectly—or even reasonably well—sets us up to be incapacitated by the dysfunctions we'll almost certainly encounter. Before you meet your relatives this season, take a few moments to sit quietly and acknowledge what you wish they were like. Then prepare to accept them even if they behave as they have always done in the past. At best you may be surprised to find that they actually are changing, that some of your wishes have come true. At worst, you'll feel regrettably detached as you watch them play out their usual psychoses," Beck advises on Oprah.com. 2.Train for the day Think about what your family might say or do that will push your buttons. Be specific. Then prepare a response to each of them. Rehearse it. "Maybe it will be waiting a beat, smiling, and simply changing the subject in reaction to an offensive comment, or maybe a deep breath and a repeated mantra in your head. Maybe it will be having a stock, well-rehearsed answer to explain why you're not drinking or why you and your partner broke up. Or perhaps it will be a secret stash of crackers and cheese for the agonising and grump-inducing wait when the dinner is three hours later than planned (again)," says Psychology Today. 3. Set boundaries Decide beforehand how much contact you want  (or can stomach) with each of your family members. WATCH: Cooking tips to revolutionise your Christmas lunch "Would you be more enthusiastic about a get-together if you planned to leave after no more than four hours? Or three? Two? One? Would you breathe easier if you rented a car so that you could get away without relying on relatives for transportation? Would it help to have a friend call you on your cellphone halfway through the evening, providing an excuse for a graceful exit?" suggest Martha Beck. You can also enforce boundaries while at the gathering. Excuse yourself and walk away. Or get up, sit somewhere else and focus on a new conversation. 4. Don’t take things personally Yes, some people are out to get us, but the truth is that most of the time people aren't taking us into consideration at all. They are often projecting their issues onto us "like a movie being projected on your screen", as Psychology Today puts it. Or they are just doing the best they can, stumbling carelessly, mindlessly, or maybe even because they are trying to help and think that they are doing a great service as the self-appointed emcee offering their humour—for free!" 5. Turn it into a game Beck suggests you become a "participant observer" at the family lunch or braai, making mental notes to describe later to someone who's on your wavelength. She suggests trying the following:  "Queen for a Day"
	This little game is based on the old TV show in which four women competed to see who had the most miserable life. The contestant judged most pathetic got, among other things, a washing machine in which to cleanse her tear-stained clothing. My version goes like this: Prior to a family function, arrange to meet with at least two friends—more, if possible—after the holidays. You'll each tell the stories of your respective family get-togethers, then vote to see whose experience was most horrendous. That person will then be crowned queen, and the others will buy her lunch. "Comedy Club"
	The more atrocious your family's behaviour is, the funnier it can be in the retelling. Watch stand-up comics to see the enormous fun they can have describing appalling marriages, ghastly parenting, or poisonous family secrets. When you're back among friends, telling your own wild stories, you may find that you no longer suffer from your family's brand of insanity; you've actually started to enjoy it. 6. Give rather than receive Psychology today has the last word: "If you know going in that you’re not likely to get your emotional needs met from this crowd, consider doing a 180. Maybe this is your moment to be generous and bring the cheer and spread it around. You’ll leave knowing that you made a contribution to the greater good." And isn't that what the holiday family get-togethers should be for?  eNCA