JOHANNESBURG - Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane has defended her report on a bank bailout during apartheid. In June, Mkhwebane filed her report on a Reserve Bank bailout for Bankorp.  Her remedial action included telling the Special Investigating Unit to re-open an investigation into Bankorp. The Reserve Bank is in the North Gauteng High Court for an order that Mkhwebane breached her oath of office. READ: Absa denies apartheid-era debt The Public Protector wants more than a billion rand in interest to be repaid to the Reserve Bank. In 1985 the Reserve Bank agreed to give 'lifeboat' loans to Bankorp. Absa bought Bankorp in 1995. Also worth noting, as @OpenSecretsZA has reported, the apartheid-era Finance Minister Barend du Plessis was running that ministry when the Bankorp bailout was granted in 1985. His brother happened to be on the board of a major subsidiary of Bankorp at the time. Now, Absa, National Treasury, and the Reserve Bank want the High Court to dismiss the Public Protector's report on the loan. They say she overstepped her mark in recommending the Special Investigating Unit re-open its Bankorp case. Senior counsel for the Reserve Bank argues Mkhwebane breached her oath of office. But the Public Protector has defended her conduct, saying the remedial action in her final report is not binding. That argument doesn’t cut it for the Reserve Bank. READ: Public Protector off the hook in Parliament One might expect the central bank to welcome the Public Protector's efforts to ensure it is paid R1.125 billion, but these two state institutions are at loggerheads.
	
	The central bank says Mkhwebane neither understands her role or the Public Protector Act of 1995. In reply, her lawyer says even if she made a mistake in the report - and she does not concede that she did - it is not grounds to suspect foul play. The court will now hear responses to Mkhwebane's defence from Absa and National Treasury. Court has concluded for today in the North Gauteng High Court. Proceedings resume tomorrow over the #PublicProtector's report on an apartheid-era loan from the @SAReserveBank to Bankorp #CIEXReport eNCA