BEIJING - China exported no oil products to North Korea in November, Chinese customs data showed, apparently going above and beyond sanctions imposed earlier this year by the United Nations in a bid to limit petroleum shipments to the isolated country. Tensions have flared anew over North Korea's ongoing nuclear and missile programmes, pursued in defiance of years of UN resolutions. Last week, the UN Security Council imposed new caps on trade with North Korea, including limiting oil product shipments to just 500,000 barrels a year. Beijing also imported no iron ore, coal or lead from North Korea in November, the second full month of the latest trade sanctions imposed by UN. Since June, state-run China National Petroleum Corp (CNPC) has suspended sales of gasoline and diesel to North Korea, concerned that it would not get paid for its goods, Reuters previously reported. Beijing's move to turn off the taps completely is rare. In March 2003, China suspended oil supplies to North Korea for three days after Pyongyang fired a missile into waters between the Korean Peninsula and Japan. READ: Putin, Trump discuss North Korea in phone call It is unknown if China still sells crude oil to Pyongyang. Beijing has not disclosed its crude exports to North Korea for several years. Industry sources say China still supplies about 520,000 tons, or 3.8 million barrels, of crude a year to North Korea via an ageing pipeline. That is a little more than 10,000 barrels a day and worth about $200-million (R2.5-billion) a year at current prices. North Korea also sources some of its oil from Russia.
	   
	Total trade less than $400-million Chinese exports of corn to North Korean in November also slumped, down 82 percent from a year earlier to 100 tons, the lowest since January. Exports of rice plunged 64 percent to 672 tons, the lowest since March. Trade between North Korea and China has slowed through the year, particularly after China banned coal purchases in February. In November, China's trade with North Korea totalled $388-million, one of the lowest monthly volumes this year. READ: North Korea's envoy, Tillerson to attend UN meeting China has renewed its call on all countries to make constructive efforts to ease tensions on the Korean peninsula, urging the use of peaceful means to resolve issues. But tensions flared again after North Korea on November 29 said it had tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile that put the U.S. mainland within range of its nuclear weapons. Meanwhile, Chinese exports of liquefied petroleum gas to North Korea, used for cooking, rose 58 percent in November from a year earlier to 99 tonnes. Exports of ethanol, which can be turned into a biofuel, gained 82 percent to 3,428 cubic metres. Reuters