JOHANNESBURG - Carl Niehaus has allegedly exposed himself once again as an all-too-willing orphan. The strong proponent of radical economic transformation and vocal advocate for Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma's presidential bid, has had more of his alleged financial shenanigans exposed in the Sunday Times. Is it true that Carl Niehaus is the campaign manager? He who took money from many of us for marrow cancer treatment? And other lies. https://t.co/tAcUXY0MHe Niehaus was arrested, along with his wife-to-be Jansie Lourens, in 1983 after performing reconnaissance work for the ANC, photographing the Johannesburg Gas Works in Johannesburg. Unfortunately for him, he was travelling in a police vehicle at the time while using a police camera to photograph his target. Niehaus had been sharing a house with a police spy, Robert Whitecross, who arranged the equipment he required. Niehaus was released from prison in 1991 and divorced Jansie shortly thereafter. He then began living a lifestyle - including two further divorces -  that seemed to be beyond his means, and after an earlier incident in which he borrowed money for a holiday in Mauritius that he was unable to repay and allegations of fraud and financial misconduct, Niehaus was forced to resign from the ANC in February 2009. The Star reported in 2012 that Cheryl Clur, the owner of East London-based travel agency Let’s Travel, who had lent Niehaus the money to finance his Mauritius holiday years earlier, was still owed R75,000 by the controversial political figure. She said he had disappeared off the radar, but she had finally tracked him down when he began working for the Rhema Church. Clur told The Star that Niehaus had told her he "was ill with leukaemia" and that “ethically, I thought he would never let me down.” She was mistaken. Perhaps Carl Niehaus should apologize to Deputy Minister Nel about his mother passing and needing money for the funeral. A lie. Sad case. In May 2012, the Mail&Guardian reported on how Niehaus had run up an additional string of debts and had sought to borrow money from his friend, Andries Nel - currently deputy-minister of Cooperative Governance - purportedly to cover funeral expenses for his father. Nel, who gifted money to Carl to help cover expenses, was reported to have subsequently attempted to attend the funeral without success, as Carl's father had not in fact died. That will be interesting! What we know is that he is a pathological liar. He needs help. He was never in MK and he knows it. He should just ask for forgiveness for his lies and deceit. https://t.co/CRd7wI4LWN But now, it seems that one fake funeral is not sufficient for Carl, and, as the Sunday Times reported, Niehaus allegedly told a landlord to whom he owes significant sums of money that his mother had passed away and he stands to 'receive a generous inheritance'. The paper further reported that Niehaus had forged correspondence between himself and a fictitious Nedbank employee to back up his claim.  Carl Niehaus is a liar and a con artist. https://t.co/GeIE5pXEP2 Unfortunately for Niehaus - or fortunately depending on how one may look at it - his mother is still alive and residing in an old-age home, a fact confirmed telephonically by his sister. Where this leaves Niehaus's revitalised public platform as national spokesperson for the MKMVA and ANN7 commentator remains to be seen. eNCA