PRETORIA - Mamelodi Sundowns will be hoping to extend their winning streak when they square off against Cape Town City in an Absa Premiership match at the Loftus Versfeld Stadium on Tuesday. The Brazilians extended their successful run to four matches in the league when they thumped Bloemfontein Celtic 4-1 at home over the weekend. As a result, Sundowns extended their lead at the top of the league standings, having accumulated 28 points from 13 games. They are six points above second-placed Kaizer Chiefs. "The win against AmaZulu gave us a lot of confidence to step up even more and make this a feisty encounter. We believe that we have what it takes to win today!" - Thabo Nodada#iamCityFC pic.twitter.com/I0hYpJhLyT City ended their four-match winless run in the league when they defeated AmaZulu 1-0 at home on Friday night. The Citizens find themselves placed fifth on the league standings with 21 point from 14 matches but are only a point behind second-placed Chiefs. Sundowns forward Percy Tau said it was always difficult to play so many games in such a short time, but said he was proud of his team-mates. READ: Sundowns end year on a high as they humiliate Celtic “I always try and contribute to the team. It is not always the group performance, but it is about what you contribute to the team. Sometimes it is defending, sometimes it is attacking or assisting. I’m always happy to see myself getting better and the guys are also scoring.” Meanwhile, Cape Town City head coach Benni McCarthy simplified pre-match expectations: “We just have to continue to push,” he said. “We have to focus for the entire game because a team only gets to rest once the final whistle goes. While fortune favoured us against AmaZulu, I will take it because there were so many other games in which we were unlucky and threw the points away.” Sundowns’ key players will include Wayne Arendse, an experienced defender who is a leader in the defence. The 33-year-old will be keen to produce a solid performance and ensure that Sundowns do not concede against the Citizens. READ: Putsche nets winner for Cape Town City against AmaZulu Another key player is Themba Zwane, an attacking midfielder who is enjoying his football at the moment, having scored as Sundowns beat Celtic 4-1 on Saturday afternoon. The 28-year-old will be hoping to continue his good form against City and help the Brazilians win. For Cape Town City, goalkeeper Sage Stephens has done relatively well, having kept a clean sheet against AmaZulu on Friday. Victor Obinna is an experienced forward has cemented his place in the City starting line-up in recent times and the Nigerian striker will be looking to hit the back of the net and help his side secure an away win. Let's do this one last time in 2017 Masandawana! It's Matchday! #Sundowns #AbsaPrem pic.twitter.com/i9TGUutJsr African News Agency