CAPE TOWN – Hooker Malcolm Marx has raked in several sterling performances for the Springboks over the last year, and this has drawn ongoing comparisons with Bok great Bismarck du Plessis. After starring for the Lions in Super Rugby, Marx went on to establish himself as the Boks’ incumbent hooker in 2017, while earning plaudits from around the world as a result of his consistently impressive performances. Besides completing his primary roles with aplomb, Marx is a powerful ball-carrier, boasts immense athleticism, and is a menace at the breakdown, which harks back to the days of Du Plessis, who featured in 79 Tests for the Boks. Marx has often acknowledged that Du Plessis is a player who he looks up to, but in an interview with Springbok Magazine, he explained that he was also looking to make his own mark on the game. “Bismarck is a fantastic player and a great Springbok and although it’s nice to be compared to him, I am pretty much my own man. I have a long road to walk still, but can learn a lot from his and other Springboks’ examples and their rugby journey.” Undoubtedly, Marx’s most memorable performance of the year came in the Boks’ Test against the All Blacks at Newlands on October 7, although his efforts were ultimately in vain as South Africa slipped to an agonising one-point defeat. Yet, Marx insists that it was a result that proved the Boks can be competitive against the best.
	 
	“We wanted to show that the (57-0) loss (against New Zealand) in Albany don’t define us as a team. Each player knew we had a responsibility to react and to play much better against the best team in the world. We also owed it to our supporters to show we are capable of playing much better.” In that Test at Newlands, Marx won as many as four turnovers, and it would seem that his strength at the breakdown is a natural talent. “Turnovers are vital and I don’t practise any special skills, I just compete as hard and as best as I can at the breakdown and in any other area of play,” he admitted. Heading into 2018, Marx will first turn his attention to Super Rugby duty with the Lions once again, with the Johannesburg-based team looking to finally clinch the title after two successive runners-up finishes. “It was disappointing (to lose in the final), but as a franchise team we have grown a lot and we are a tight group of players at the Lions,” he commented. “Our fans have been fantastic over the last few years and we hope we can continue to make them proud in the competition.” Away from the game, Marx says he simply enjoys relaxing with friends and family. On the field, though, it’s clear that the abrasive hooker is emphatically blazing his own trail.  African News Agency