CAPE TOWN – The Blitzboks crashed out of the Cape Town Sevens on Sunday after New Zealand clinched the Cup semi-final 19-12 at the Cape Town Stadium. The Kiwis used their possession in a much better manner, and were ruthless on attack compared to the South Africans, who battled to hold on to the ball. It seemed as if the physicality of the New Zealanders also overwhelmed the home team somewhat, as they launched into tackles and the breakdowns and disrupted the Blitzboks’ rhythm and momentum. Captain Philip Snyman opened the scoring for the Blitzboks, but it was set up by a thrilling run by star speedster Seabelo Senatla down the left. Senatla went on a mazy run until the New Zealand 22, and the ball was shifted wide to Snyman, who forced himself through the Kiwi defence. In addition, Joe Ravouvou was given a yellow card for a late tackle on Senatla, and it looked like the scene was set for an easy Blitzbok victory. READ: Blitzboks can't be imitated But the New Zealanders soon hit back when Tim Mikkelson rounded off after a stunning run by Dylan Collier. The South Africans regained the lead, though, when Cecil Afrika struck from his own tap penalty to go over. A 12-7 halftime lead was never going to be enough for the Blitzboks, and when Vilimoni Koroi sped away from the SA defence to level the scores, the Kiwis had the edge. Kwagga Smith nearly put the Blitzboks back in front, but he was hauled down just short of the line, and that was the cue for New Zealand to take full advantage. The decisive touchdown came soon enough, with Joe Ravouvou flying down the right-hand side, before Joe Webber finished it off. The Blitzboks’ last promising attack reached the 22, but Tim Agaba lost possession in a massive ball-and-all tackle, and New Zealand held on to go through to the final. Scorers
	South Africa 12 (12) – Tries: Philip Snyman, Cecil Afrika. Conversion: Branco du Preez (1).
	New Zealand 19 (7) – Tries: Tim Mikkelson, Vilimoni Koroi, Joe Webber. Conversions: Koroi (1), Andrew Knewstubb (1). African News Agency