JOHANNESBURG – US Musician, Solange Knowles has pulled out of the Afropunk music festival in Johannesburg. The Cranes in the Sky singer wrote on her Instagram that she would not be performing at the festival due to a disorder she was diagnosed with. “However it’s so important to me for the people in South Africa, a place that has tremendous meaning to me and that has given me SO SO  MUCH, to know why I won’t be performing at Afropunk this NYE.The past five months I have been quietly treating, and working through an Autonomic Disorder,” she wrote on her Instagram page. Wrote, deleted and re wrote this like 5 times... Still not sure what exactly or how much I want to share... However it’s so important to me for the people in South Africa, a place that has tremendous meaning to me and that has given me SO SO MUCH, to know why I won’t be performing at Afro Punk this NYE. The past five months I have been quietly treating, and working through an Autonomic Disorder. It been a journey that hasn’t been easy on me... Sometimes I feel cool, and other times not so cool at all. It’s a complicated diagnoses , and I’m still learning so much myself, but right now, my doctors are not clearing me for such an extended lengthy flight, and doing a rigorous show right after. I can’t put into words how saddened and sorry I am that I am unable to perform for you guys this NYE, there is simply no other place I wanted to be than there with my family to bring in 2018 with you.......but I give you my ABSOLUTE WORD I will come back with AfroPunk and deliver this performance.....as it is so extremely important to me to connect with the people who have so closely inspired me in so many ways. I can’t thank Afro Punk enough for their support, and to all of the other festivals this past summer/fall who have known about my health, kept it confidential, and gone out of their way to make me feel supported while doing these shows. As a part of the self care that I’ve tried to encourage this past year, it needs to start with myself, and I’m looking forward to doing a better job of this 2018. This past year has been one of the most fulfilling of my life... Performing this record and experiencing the energy exchange with you guys has been astounding, and I’m so excited about continuing to do the work I feel so absolutely humbled and appreciative to be doing next year. It gives me life. A post shared by  Solange (@saintrecords) on Solange and US musician Anderson Paak and The Free Nationals were billed as headliners for the popular event which has been to New York, Atlanta, London and Paris. IN PICTURES: Bands battle it out for a spot on the Afropunk stage The festival, which started in the US 14 years ago, is on Saturday and Sunday. Fans responded to the news with disappointment and anger. Other artists on the line-up are Spoke Mathambo, Nonku Phiri, Thebe and Nakhane among others. The two-day Afropunk Festival will take place on 30 and 31 December at Constitution Hill. eNCA