JOHANNESBURG – The Federation of Unions of South Africa (Fedusa), the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) and the Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) congratulated Cyril Ramaphosa on being elected the new president of the African National Congress (ANC). Fedusa Fedusa extended its well wishes and congratulations to Cyril Ramaphosa after he was elected as the new president of the African National Congress (ANC). Ramaphosa was elected at the 54th Elective Conference at the Nasrec Expo in Johannesburg on Monday, where some 4,700 delegates cast their ballots. Fedusa said that the news of Ramaphosa’s election comes as a relief to restore much needed confidence in both the political and economic stability of South Africa. READ: Ramaphosa’s election, a step in the right direction: Outa Fedusa General Secretary, Dennis George said: “The federation anticipates that this much needed early Christmas present will go a long way in the restoration of investor confidence, strengthen the currency and ward off all possible considerations of a downgrade by ratings agencies, who have closely monitored the situation with bated breath. “This is certainly an opportune time for Ramaphosa to rise to the occasion by demonstrating his ability to reshape and formalise a renewed outlook for South Africa’s financial markets and the economy overall.” NUM  The National Union of Mineworkers congratulated deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa for being elected the president of the African National Conference (ANC) during its 54th national conference held in Nasrec, Johannesburg. Ramaphosa, a founding general secretary of the NUM, was elected president of the ANC on Monday night winning with 2,449 votes to Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma’s. The new ruling party president was brought to tears as he struggled to compose himself as the news sank in. WATCH: Zuma hears Ramaphosa has won “Comrade Cyril Ramaphosa led the NUM with commitment and dedication for a number of years. It is through the gallant fight by comrade Cyril Ramaphosa and others that miners who had for many years of service were given only a helmet and a pair of boots on their retirement and are today able to receive retirements benefits,” the union said in a statement. “We wish comrade Cyril Ramaphosa and the collective all the very best during their term of office. We expect the newly elected President to be bold and brave to lead South Africa out of the current crisis of corruption and state capture into a prosperous future.” Cosatu Trade union federation Cosatu also welcomed the newly elected ANC leadership with Cyril Ramaphosa at the helm. It called on the new party leaders to work on strengthening the tripartite alliance. Cosatu General Secretary  Bheki Ntshalintshali said, "What makes us a bit comfortable is that this is not a slate. It's a combination and people take into account that it has to work...If they come together to deal with corruption, job creation etc it will be good for the country." African News Agency