LOBATSE, Botswana – The South African Under-17 Women’s National Team (Bantwana) defeated Botswana 5-2 in the first leg first round of the 2018 FIFA Under-17 Women’s World Cup qualifier played at the Lobatse Sports Complex on Friday. So extremely proud of these 3 @JVWGirlsFootbal club players who received their 1st cap for the U/17 National football team today & beat Botswana 5-2 in their World Cup qualifier. --⚽️-- #womensfootball #Bantwana pic.twitter.com/AV1eCdGtqF Bantwana coach Simphiwe Dludlu gave debuts to 11 players, and they did not disappoint. Goals from Karabo Dlamini, Thambolinye Mzoneli, Miche Minnies, Jessica Wade as well as an own-goal from Tshegofatso Mosotho were enough to see South Africa take a healthy lead going into the second leg which will be played in two weeks’ time. Gratifying Trip and an emphatic victory for #Bantwana as we demolished @BotsFootball 5 - 2. Dobsie beckons #ComeShowYourLoveForBantwana @ChikitasDiski pic.twitter.com/dXIbGDBPbZ Bantwana started on a high, grabbing the first goal in the first minute through Dlamini, before Mzoneli made it 2-0 in the 15th minute. But a minute later the hosts pulled one back when Koagile Senwelo latched on to a defence-splitting pass and pushed the ball past an advancing Kaydee Windvogel in the Bantwana goals. Four minutes before the halftime whistle, South Africa extended their lead through an own-goal by Tshegofatso Mosotho – leaving the score at 3-1. Tough week away, but we are home with a Win --⚽️ Congrats to #Bantwana on your incredible performance yesterday, it's been an absolute pleasure being part of this team ❤️---- pic.twitter.com/GwNmY2aoMl In the second stanza, Bantwana continued where they left off in the first half and increased their lead to 4-1 from a Miche Minnies goal in the 56th minute. Five minutes later South Africa was awarded a free-kick and Jessica Wade took it brilliantly to beat Atang Sedimonyane in the Botswana goal to make it 5-1. In the 73rd minute, Bantwana captain Kaylin Jordaan was adjudged to have fouled her opponent and Botswana were awarded a penalty. Esalenna Galekhutle stepped up to take it but Windvogel pulled off a fine save to keep the score at 5-1 to Bantwana. Only three players from the Bantwana squad who featured against Botswana have played international football before (Jordaan, Karabo Dlamini and substitute Sibulele Holweni), and three goal-scorers (Mzoneli, Minnies and Wade) got onto the score sheet on their debut. Senwelo scored Botswana’s second goal in the 83rd minute to wrap up the scoring in the match. The second leg will be played on Saturday, December 16 at the Dobsonville Stadium (start 3pm). AFP