CAPE TOWN – The Premier Soccer League (PSL) appears determined to discipline Cape Town City over their insistence on continuing to display a sports betting company logo on their kit. The Citizens announced their sponsorship deal with SportPesa in early August, calling it their ‘signing of the season’. However, it subsequently transpired that the Cape club was allegedly in breach of the league regulations, although a 7-year-old resolution – not to take on sports betting companies as sponsors until the league had investigated the issue more thoroughly‚ was never carried out. READ: Benni McCarthy in hot water with Premier Soccer League However, article 9.1.16 of the National Soccer league (NSL) Handbook gives the league the right to “suspend‚ fine‚ terminate the membership of or otherwise sanction or deal with any Member Club” found guilty of such a transgression. A PSL Board of Governors (BoG) meeting was held on September 14 to address the issue, where it was decided that a disciplinary committee hearing would be skipped with the matter instead to go straight to arbitration‚ which is expected to take place in January. In the meantime, the Mother City outfit have continued to display their sponsor’s logo on their shirts in all games. According to a report from the Sowetan this week, Cape Town City’s future could be in jeopardy, with a real possibility of the club being expelled or docked three points from each game in which they allegedly flouted the regulations, which would more than likely result in relegation. The report states that “the shirt with the SportPesa logo on was never approved by the PSL as per league rules‚ and the club were directly instructed not to use it,” and that “the club has had charges brought against it for every game where they have continued to wear the SportPesa logo. They had accumulated more than 20 charges by mid-October.” READ: Cape Town City pens first sponsorship deal Club boss John Comitis, however, remains defiant and says his club are not guilty of breaking any rules. “I think (the PSL) are on a big witch hunt here and quite frankly we are 100 percent confident that we have done nothing wrong,” he said. “Over and above that the league met a senior counsel (SC) on the matter without any input from ourselves. “They handed over the documents and minutes that they had in their possession, and the SC came back and categorically stated that there were no grounds in place to preclude us from signing the deal. So any charge of us defying comes from a place where they had no right to be implementing such a ruling against us.” It was also believed that two other PSL clubs – Kaizer Chiefs and Maritzburg United, had previously had potential sponsorship deals lined up with sports betting companies, but complied with the league’s stance on the matter and turned them down. Comitis says though that the Amakhosi situation was different, as it was a “tripartite agreement between Chiefs‚ the league and the company for sports betting rights.”  African News Agency