JOHANNESBURG - Orlando Pirates will hope to continue with their league form when they host SuperSport United in the Absa Premiership on Tuesday night at Orlando Stadium (start 7:30pm). The Buccaneers are high in confidence after bagging a vital three points against Bloemfontein Celtic a week ago and managed to break their six-match winless run. However, prior to that win, they were held to a 0-0 draw against Golden Arrows at home as well as a loss to Polokwane City in the Telkom Knockout quarterfinals. Coach Milutin Sredojevic will hope to see a better side after a week’s break as they want to reach the top of the log standings. They occupy the second spot with 18 points from 12 league matches and will be hoping to topple Baroka FC at the top. Looking at the visitors, United are also chasing a win and ensure they keep climbing the log table to challenge for the league honours. Fresh from a hard-fought 1-0 win over Ajax Cape Town last week, coach Eric Tinkler has to motivate his men to fight for another victory. The Tshwane giants were victorious in the MTN8 as they lifted the trophy, but failed to beat TP Mazembe in the CAF Confederation Cup final. READ: SuperSport take home Nedbank trophy United occupy the 10th spot with 13 points from 10 matches, a win will give them 16 points and they will be inside the top eight bracket. Pirates coach Milutin Sredojevic said he was looking to address some of his team’s shortcomings in the match. “I would say that I am happy with the win (0ver Celtic) but at the same moment there are so many things to correct with the performance of the team in the times ahead of us,” said Sredojevic. “Winning after six matches not winning is something that will boost the morale of the team and move us to improve on our shortcomings. We worked very hard, the mental block that was in front of us, six games without a win, when you have such mental block even the legs are logged. “I believe with winning this is how the legs are unlocked and we can play our football. To play well defensively, not allowing the opposition to have chances and dominating in the middle and to convert chances.” African News Agency