JOHANNESBURG – Mining group Sibanye-Stillwater said on Thursday it had reached an agreement to acquire the entire issued ordinary share capital of platinum producer Lonmin. “The proposed combination with Lonmin positions the enlarged Sibanye-Stillwater Group as a leading mine-to-market producer of PGMs (platinum group metals) in South Africa,” Sibanye-Stillwater CEO Neal Froneman said. “The flexibility inherent in the larger regional PGM footprint, will create a more robust business, better able to withstand volatile PGM prices and exchange rates.” Sibanye-Stillwater said the offer would be effected by means of a scheme of arrangement between Lonmin and its shareholders under Part 26 of the UK Companies Act. Under the terms of the offer, Lonmin shareholders will receive 0.967 new Sibanye-Stillwater shares for each Lonmin share. “Based on the closing price of R16.11 for a Sibanye-Stillwater share on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange on 13 December 2017 and the exchange rate on that date being £1: R18.056, the offer values each Lonmin share at 86.3 pence,” Sibanye-Stillwater said. This represented a premium of approximately 35 percent to the closing price per Lonmin share of 63.8 pence on 13 December 2017, it added. Upon completion of the acquisition, Lonmin shareholders will hold approximately 11.3 percent of the enlarged Sibanye-Stillwater Group while Sibanye-Stillwater shareholders will hold approximately 88.7 percent of the larger entity. Sibanye-Stillwater is a global precious metals mining group domiciled in South Africa, with a primary listing on the JSE securities exchange. It owns and operates a mix of gold and PGM mines and projects throughout South Africa, Zimbabwe and the United States. The company also owns and manages significant gold extraction and processing facilities and features among the world’s top ten gold producers. Lonmin is a major mine-to-market producer of PGMs with core operations in South Africa. It produces PGMs predominantly used in many industrial applications as well as in jewellery and investment, with saleable by-products including gold, copper, nickel, chrome and cobalt. Lonmin has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and a secondary listing on the JSE securities exchange. African News Agency