JOHANNESBURG – eNCA news anchor Dan Moyane took an HIV test live on television for the commemoration of World Aids Day 2017. Witkoppen Health and Welfare Centre’s Jacob Mothlobane conducted the painless test and particularly encouraged young men to know their status. “It is quite shocking because many people do not know their status, they do not know how to prevent and protect themselves,” he said. The centre’s HIV Programme Manager Julien Chihwayi said mobile health strategies, using digital media, needed to be implemented and monitored in order to raise awareness. An estimated seven million people are living with HIV in South Africa with the rate of infection being the highest among women aged between 15 and 24. “We need to access these young boys and girls in areas where they hangout,” Chihwayi said. “We need to make sure that in terms of communications, we need to communicate and use platforms that we know will reach out to the younger population of the country. “We cannot continue on print media because we know that young people are always on their cellphones. We need to make sure that our mobile [digital] health strategies are implemented and monitored, and that they work.” READ: New ARV drugs, early diagnosis key to beating AIDS epidemic This year’s World Aids Day is being observed under the theme The Right to Health. The Treatment Action Campaign (TAC) says there is little to celebrate on this day as South Africa’s healthcare system is fast deteriorating. “If you look at the healthcare system itself, the one that is supposed to be taking care of all the people that are infected and affected by HIV - it is falling apart,” the campaign’s Patrick Mdletshe said. “One asks themselves how we ended up here, looking at the issues of Life Esidimeni or oncology in KwaZulu-Natal.” A hospital survey conducted recently found a high shortage of nurses, doctors and treatment in general, the TAC said. “There's nothing to celebrate. Instead, we need to invest more time on rebuilding our healthcare system so that we can take care of our people,” Mdletshe added. eNCA