PRETORIA - A newly released report by the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IEA) and Unesco found South Africa last in a list of 50 countries in literacy. In 2016, 12,810 Grade 4 students from 293 schools countrywide were tested for student learning in reading through the Progress in International Reading and Literacy Study (PIRLS). The students were tested in the language of instruction at their schools from Grades 1 to 3. The children were generally tested in the official language with which they were most familiar. READ: We shall not live by bread alone: International Literacy Day 2017 49 other countries were assessed, approximately 319,000 Grade 4 students around the world participated, along with 15,000 teachers and 11,000 schools. IEA conducts comparative research to enable governments and researcher to make evidence-based decisions for improving educational policy South African Grade 4 children scored the lowest mark in the 2016 PIRLS.  Girls had higher average achievement than boys in 48 of the 50 countries, and boys did not have higher achievement in any of the 50 countries. The gender gap in reading achievement has favoured girls since 2001 and does not appear to be closing. The South African gender gap in reading is the second highest of the countries tested, with girls scoring significantly higher than boys. According to the IEA, across countries, higher reading achievement was related to: More home resources that support learning (books in the home, study supports, and educated parents with professional/technical occupations)
	More digital devices in the home
	Parents who like to read There was generally a decrease in parents’ positive attitudes toward reading since 2011 in 31 countries, and only 2 countries had an increase. On average in 2016, only 32 percent of the students’ parents liked to read a lot and 17 percent reported they did not like to read. Across the countries, students performed better on average if they attended schools that are more affluent; where a higher proportion of peers had early reading skills.  Students also performed better where instruction was not affected by reading resource shortages. Even with positive school climates, students suffering from a lack of adequate nutrition, sleep or are frequently absent from school scored lower in reading than their classmates. eNCA