JOHANNESBURG – An investigation into Deloitte South Africa is underway, the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (IRBA) said on Friday. This follows the share price collapse of retailer Steinhoff International DV, amid allegations of accounting irregularities. “The IRBA will commence its investigation into the conduct of the auditors of Steinhoff International Holdings (Pty) Ltd for the audits of financial years ended 2014 – 2016. This entity is audited by Deloitte South Africa, who has confirmed that it will fully cooperate with the IRBA during the investigation,” the regulator’s chief executive officer Bernard Agulhas said. He said the timing of the investigation will depend on information brought forward when the nature of alleged irregularities have been established with all relevant parties involved. Meanwhile, Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) CEO Nicky Newton-King played down rumours it would suspend the retailer's listing. She said suspension was not desirable for any of the parties involved, but especially on traders. “If you suspend a company, it is not a penalty on the company,” Newton-King added. READ: Steinhoff CEO quits over accounting irregularities “It is a penalty on the shareholder because what it stops is, it does allow a shareholder to trade. So a shareholder who might want to exit a share is no longer able to do so if we have suspended a share. So, in fact, it is most prejudicial to suspend for a shareholder than for a company.” The scandal at Steinhoff resulted in big losses for government workers who had pension funds invested in the company. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, however, says workers should not be alarmed and says a task team is looking into the matter. “We are determined to ensure that any individual or company who has wilfully committed fraud is held accountable to uphold the strength of the regulatory environment, minimise the impact on jobs and investment, and to protect the citizens, especially the pensioners,” Giagaba added. eNCA