PORT ELIZABETH There are no cracks in the Nelson Mandela Bay coalition government, insists the metro s deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani.Bobani tried to quell talks of apparent tensions in the governing agreement, confirming a meeting between DA leader Mmusi Maimane and his UDM counterpart Bantu Holomisa. There were no cracks in the coalition there were only different opinions and as per our coalition agreement, when there are different opinions our agreement is clear that it must be escalated to our provincial structures and ultimately to our national leaders, said Bobani.Bobani was addressing the media following a first special council meeting for this year on Tuesday afternoon.READ: DA meets with IEC over ANC 'war room'Last week, a special council meeting collapsed following a disagreement between DA mayor Athol Trollip, and Bobani (UDM) over the recruitment and expulsion of senior managers in the metro.An inter-party meeting was held on Monday night, with UDM and DA party bosses attempting to resolve issues which brought a Nelson Mandela Bay council meeting to a deadlock last week. We had to involve our national leaders, that is Bantu Holomisa together with Mmusi Maimane, and last night we had talks and the differences were resolved in terms of the agreement. We are on record to say there are no cracks in the coalition; (a) difference of opinion can happen anywhere, said Bobani.He added that the UDM was now happy with the appointment of current city manager Johan Mettler. The matter around Mr Mettler has been put to rest. As the UDM we supported him, but we just wanted to ensure that we are in compliance as the city and that has been taken care of. As of now the UDM and the coalition government are fully supporting the municipal manager, he said.READ: Two Mpumalanga municipalities can't honour Eskom debt, says DAMeanwhile, ANC party leader in the metro, Bicks Ndoni told reporters the ANC had no intention of bringing a motion of no-confidence against Trollip, despite their spokesperson Gift Ngqondi's claims to the contrary earlier this week. I am the leader of the ANC caucus in council and if there is an official position. It will come from me. Gift is an activist who is helping in that caucus, it has nothing to do with divisions. The ANC outside council agreed on that position, we had a meeting and we agreed that would be the line we would be towing. The regional structures agree with me. It s an unfortunate thing that this thing of motion of no-confidence went out, it s an individual who said that and maybe he misread the situation, said Ndoni Africa News Agency