JOHANNESBURG South African gospel artists came out in their numbers on Tuesday to celebrate the life of Lundi Tyamara, who died at the age of 38 on Friday.At the memorial service held at the packed Grace Bible Church in Soweto, industry peers such as Benjamin Dube, Sizwe Zako, Keke Phoofolo, Sipho Makhabane, Sechaba Pali, Zanele Mbokazi, and many others paid their respects to the artist.Also in attendance were musicians Yvonne Chaka Chaka and Tshedi Mholo and former SABC boss Hlaudi Motsoeneng.Tyamara produced many gospel hits, most notably Mphefumlo Wami, which sold more than 300,000 copies. Gospel legend Rebecca Malope, who was Tyamara s rolemodel and mentor, sang a heartfelt gospel rendition that brought tears to many mourners' eyes.#LundiTyamaraMemorial - Lundi's mentor Dr Rebecca Malope singing "go well my son, I'll kiss you goodbye.." pic.twitter.com/axjs94cegeTyamara s former manager, Tshepo Nzimande, spoke frankly about some of the difficulties that the artist battled with during his prime, including drugs and alcohol. When Lundi hit the hard times, he said he wouldn t gossip or sing about other people but he would continue singing about God. When it was discovered that he had a drug problem, he called me to his house at 2am and showed me a small plastic bag with the drugs he was taking. He confessed to me that this was what finished his money and made him behave badly, Nzimande said.#LundiTyamaraMemorial - Friend Sindile Simama says we only knew the Lundi the media lied about - he had been off drugs for 10 years pic.twitter.com/iBqhoCoh4f We cannot hide those things because our artists are damaged. We need to stand up as an industry, as parents and as government and fight against substance abuse in the music industry. Even now our artists are advertising alcohol and nobody is saying anything. But when they die poor, broke and broken we laugh at them. #LundiTyamaraMemorial "Asiphelelange kushoda uLundi.." translated "We are not complete, Lundi's missing" sing Lundi's friends on stage pic.twitter.com/BAzpWE90C0Gospel artist Deborah Fraser said Tyamara, who was gay, was like a son to her and she was his trusted confidant. I remember he once came to me at the airport and he cried tears telling me how it pained him that he has never won a Crown Gospel Award. I told Zanele Mbokazi that Tyamara deserved to win the award and asked her to make him win the award the following year, Fraser said."He was a boy that was made to believe he was no-one when he was everything to us." #LundiTyamaraMemorial I also love and appreciate how supportive the gay and lesbian community has been to Lundi. He was really sick. I cooked for him and fed him when he was in hospital. He knew his race was complete. Tyamara, who is survived by his two children, a bother and three sisters, is to be buried in his hometown, Worcester in the Western Cape, at the weekend.Africa News Agency