PRETORIA - High-flying Mamelodi Sundowns will welcome unpredictable Chippa United in an Absa Premiership game at the Loftus Versfeld Stadium in Pretoria on Tuesday with kick-off at 7.30pm.The Brazilians are coming off an impressive 2-0 home victory over Bidvest Wits in their previous league game which was played over the weekend.Hlompho Kekana fired Sundowns into the lead a few minutes before halftime, while Sibusiso Vilakazi sealed the home side s victory in stoppage time.We are at it again Masandawana... It's Matchday! #Sundowns pic.twitter.com/XzFMcnKyIxThe victory extended the Brazilians winning run to three league matches. They are also unbeaten in seven games having registered six wins and one draw.Sundowns are placed fifth on the league standings with 32 points from 14 games. They are three points behind log leaders SuperSport United, who have played 18 games.READ: Sundowns outsmart Clever Boys in TshwanePercy Tau was been influential for the Pretoria giants netting six goals in 12 league starts. The left-footed forward will be looking to maintain his good form against Chippa.Sundowns head coach Pitso Mosimane has explained that their aim is to end their first block of league fixtures with a victory on Tuesday. We are just taking one game at a time and we re not looking up the log, Mosimane said. What s good for us now is that we re three points ahead of our schedule so we need to win against Chippa United to complete our first block of fixtures and deposit those points in the other block of matches. If we carry on in that manner we re en route for the same number of points we had last season. I don t know whether we ll get there because of injuries and stuff. READ: Sundowns send Platinum Stars packingMeanwhile, United were held to a 2-2 stalemate by Golden Arrows at home in an entertaining league game which was played last Friday.Lerato Manzini was the hero for the Chilli Boys on the night hitting the back of the net in both halves and, ultimately, the game ended in a draw.This was United s second draw in their last five league matches. Since beating Baroka FC at home three weeks ago, they have recorded two draws and one defeat.United are placed ninth on the league table with 21 points from 18 matches. They are two points behind eighth-placed Maritzburg, who have played 19 games.Lerato Manzini has been in great form scoring five goals in six league starts. The Chilli Boys striker will be hoping to inspire Dan Malesela s side to victory over Sundowns.READ: Mosimane won t tolerate any showboating from SundownsUnited midfielder Menzi Masuku, who was the Man of the Match against Arrows, says the award has motivated him ahead of their clash with Sundowns. It s a pity that we didn t get the maximum result, Masuku, who grabbed two assists against Arrrows, said. But we fought very well as a team. I think this will motivate me going into the next game. The coach (Malesela) always emphasises to us to make sure that we use the ball very well and not to be caught on counter-attacks. When Sundowns and United clashed in the first round league clash, the two sides played to a 1-1 stalemate two weeks ago.Wayne Arendse put the Brazilians into the lead, but Rhulani Manzini levelled matters for the Chilli Boys in East London.African News Agency