JOHANNESBURG - The Social Development Department made arrangements with its Johannesburg counterpart on Thursday to alternative places of safety for minors or patients that require rehabilitation in the troubled suburb of Rosettenville.On 8 February the department accompanied mayor Herman Mashaba to the area on raids with the Johannesburg Metro Police Department after residents protested about alleged drug dens and prostitution, mayoral committee for health and social development spokesperson Mpho Phalatse said.Residents had set fire to several houses in protest at the crime in their area. The department addressed issues relating to migrants in the community and the community of Rosettenville has a large number of migrants, Some are validly documented and others are not. READ: Rosettenville residents reject crime hotlineSocial Development officials had advised undocumented migrants to seek assistance at the Marabastad Refugee Reception Centre.Those who had documentation were informed about services provided through the Migrant Help Desk located in the inner city. The social workers were able to identify and profile 32 drug hotspots and the team will analyse these profiles and design an appropriate action plan that may possibly include the establishment of a community anti-drug coalition in partnership with the South African National Council of Alcoholism and Drug Dependency (Sanca), Phalatse said. [Local Drug Action Committees] LDACs consist of various stakeholders and work towards effecting the National Drug Masters Plan. All this will ensure that communities are capacitated to conduct research for community diagnosis as well as craft interventions based on their findings. The Community Anti-Drug Coalition will provide training while Sanca works with the City of Joburg for continued technical support. The role of the Social Development Department was to assess and remove trafficked commercial sex workers, especially young girls, who were reported to be in brothels, he said.The team came across prostitutes who were interviewed and assessed by social workers to determine their needs. All but two refused our services, indicating that they were content with working as prostitutes and claimed to have places where they pay rent. They alleged that they were able to take care for themselves and their families with the income they earn from this trade. The department would follow up on individuals who were willing to be assisted and provide the necessary services to implement integrated substance-abuse management and moral regeneration programmes.African News Agency