BEIJING - Wang Qi, a Chinese veteran who spent 54 years trapped in India, arrived in China on Saturday along with some of his family members.Wang arrived in Beijing at around 11:30 after taking a flight from the Indian capital New Delhi. He was greeted by officials from the Chinese Foreign Ministry and one of his nephews.The 78-year-old will head to his hometown of Xianyang, in northwest China's Shaanxi Province, where his relatives are awaiting his return.Prior to arriving in Beijing, Wang spoke excitedly about returning home."After returning to Xianyang, I will meet with my brothers and sisters as well as other relatives and friends. I will also see my comrades in arms and classmates in school days. I guess they will be very happy. So will I. After 54 years, I can finally return home and see my friends from my childhood. I am so happy," said Wang.In 1963, the Chinese army surveyor crossed into India and was captured after being caught by the Indian Red Cross Society and handed over to the Indian Army in Assam. Wang Qi has not been able to leave India ever since.Until now, it is still unclear under what circumstances he was taken into custody by the Indian authorities and whether he was a prisoner of war, but it is believed he was not carrying any form of identification.After years of adapting to a new culture, lifestyle and language, Wang eventually married a local Indian woman in 1978.He longed to go home and often cried himself to sleep. Wang repeatedly applied to return to China since 1977, but never received a reply from the related Indian departments.In 2002, he finally contacted his mother on the phone for the first time in 40 years. Unfortunately he never got to meet her again as she passed away in 2006.Slowly he got in touch with his family in China. His nephew visited him as a tourist in 2009 and it was he who helped him get the necessary documents for his passport after half a century of trying. Wang finally secured a Chinese passport from the embassy in 2013 and has since then been receiving financial aid from the embassy.It is unknown whether Wang and his family will return to India after their visit. Reuters