It is not about the numbers. At some profound level it is not even or only about the political, administrative, and professional failures which only partly explain the deaths. We cannot limit our response to this tragedy with political outrage, however righteous the impulse to do so, however well-founded the feeling.94 people have died. So far. We are told the number may rise. They were among the most vulnerable in this unequal society: poor, mentally ill patients in state care. The policy violations aside, the administrative bungling and professional lapses notwithstanding, we need to come to terms with the deaths, and as Dr Malegapuru Makgoba, the Health Ombudsman points out, many of them preventable, and some of them in the cruellest, ugliest circumstances.Of course officials must be held accountable, whether in their capacity as political heads responsible for the administrative department overseeing health at the provincial level, or in their capacity as professional civil servant with a specific mandate to deliver the services of that department. Additionally, those private citizens and corporate entities which were involved in the events which led to the tragedy 94 people dead, and still counting must be brought to account.But this is a larger social and political issue affecting and implicating all of us. We are a week away from the annual State of the Nation Address. What does this damning report about the ill treatment of mental health patients in Gauteng say about us? Who are we, when we allow ourselves to be confronted with the consequences of deeds done in our names? We may not be complicit with the neglect and indifference, with the lies and the cover-ups, with the simulation and dissimulation, but we are implicated in the consequences of all of those.The image of the faces of mostly women wracked with grief is all too familiar in South Africa. Families without answers, survivors insistent on wrestling dignity for their loved ones from the state which governs in their name. Their demands for answers are directed at the government whose institutions have failed them so spectacularly. And that is as it ought to be.But what of the rest of us, those of us fortunate enough (in both the literal and the figurative senses) not to have to rely on the embattled and resources-stretched public health system in times of dire need? We live in parallel to the people whose suffering we find so outrageous. At times like this, contemplating the texture of loss reported by individuals and families, we are once again confronted with the consequences of inequality.The government is responsible, of course, for the spectacular failure around the Life Esidimeni mental health crisis in Gauteng. But beyond our rage at political incompetence, administrative indifference, and professional failure, there are some hard questions we need to ask ourselves about life in contemporary South Africa, its costs and values, and the indignity of some which structures the dignity of others.And beyond our outrage, it may be important to begin to think of what work would be required to mourn the preventable deaths of 94 (and counting) of our most vulnerable fellow human beings, simply because they were not wealthy enough to access private care, and simply because they were made vulnerable by mental health challenges. We owe to their immediate survivors who mourn them. They are strangers to most of us, such that their names are like sacred symbols, tiny fires snuffed out by systemic and collective failure, too tender to simply list, and also, precisely because they are not ours to name.So, we could use this terrible moment, this numbing tragedy, to confront ourselves, and see the gap between who we are in our conduct and the image we have of ourselves.What kind of people are we? What kind of people do we imagine ourselves to be? There are no easy answers to these discomfiting questions. 94. And still counting.