PARLIAMENT There's been mixed reaction by opposition parties, business and the labour movement to Pravin Gordhan's 2017 budget.While there seems to be broad appreciation for the finance minister's ability to balance the books in a tight fiscal environment, there was the feeling that Gordhan could have done more.Many are also wondering if there's the political will to implement the budget's many promises.#Budget2017: Tax hike for top earnersHere's the reaction from political parties:Democratic AllianceDA spokesman on finance David Maynier said a comprehensive spending review, which was on the party s wishlist ahead of the budget being tabled, would have served the young and unemployed. This year the government will be spending R14.3 billion on bloated executives and legislatures throughout the country. We think that there is further scope for spending cuts that is the only way that we believe that we will be able to sufficiently reprioritise expenditure so that we can fund programmes that give hope young people, especially those who do not have jobs or have given up looking for jobs in South Africa, said Maynier. The country s largest opposition party said while higher income earners would see increased taxes, all personal income tax earners are impacted by the budget. The truth is that all personal income tax payers are going to be affected because only R4.4 bn would be raised from the new higher tax bracket for taxable income earners of above R1.5 m. R12.5 bn will be raised from the balance of personal income tax payments through very limited relief on fiscal drag , said Maynier.Economic Freedom FightersEFF leader, Julius Malema, has welcomed the tabling of the 2017 budget, calling it a well-thought of and balanced budget , but expressed concerns over corporate taxes.Reacting to the budget, Malema said though the EFF did not agree with everything Gordhan presented, the minister deserved to be applauded. We think it was a well-thought of budget, it was a balanced budget. He tried to increase a lot of spending on poor people within constraints that we are confronted with as a country with a low [economic] growth, Malema said. Our worry is that corporate tax continues to decline. Individuals are the ones that are the biggest contributors to the fiscus of South Africa wherein corporate tax declined by three percent this year. Malema said that a radical policy must be introduced to maximum tax collection from corporate while the introduction of state-owned companies in the strategic sectors of the economy would also increase money to the state. The licencing of Postbank is good intervention. And if it can be strengthened and capacitated, it must provide services to our people at reasonable interest, Malema said.The EFF leader also applauded initiatives for government to get bargains in procurement of goods and services, as well as ensuring that suppliers are paid on time. That is a good initiative that is combating corruption, and because people must be paid for what they have delivered. No one should hold payment in exchange for bribes even when people have done a quality job, Malema said. We think that intervention will help to create jobs, will help to grow small enterprises which are job creators. Malema ended by saying that Gordhan was giving South Africa some form of hope, and that he must be given support to weather the dark political cloud hanging over him. We may not agree with him with regard to everything, but must be applauded for standing up to rot and corruption, Malema said.Inkatha Freedom PartyIFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi praised Pravin Gordhan s 2017 Budget Speech. I will say personally, from the point of view of a very grim situation which we are and which the world globally is in, it was a very magnificent performance on the part of the minister because he has a very little room to manoeuvre. The key thing as he was saying is that the economic growth is slow, even as it grows in other countries, it's slow and that impact on us and as long that s the case, some of the major problems such as employment and poverty generally, we will not be able to address it successfully. Freedom Front PlusFFPlus MP, Petrus Groenewald, criticised Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan s budget speech.Groenewald said that more should be done to curb corruption in government institutions instead of taxing the rich. We have to broaden the tax base. We can t have 5 million people paying for 35 million people. That is just not on the long run sustainable. Therefore it s not good news even for the consumer if you take 39 cents increase in petrol by the start of April so that s not good news. The only positive thing is the fact that the minister said that they will enhance measures to try to curb corruption in state departments but he says that in every budget. We have heard it before the time has come where he needs to give results. -- Additional reporting ANAeNCA