PRETORIA Veteran prosecutor Gerrie Nel on Tuesday vowed that his departure from prosecution to join civil rights group AfriForum would not compromise his prosecutorial values and principles. When I was approached by AfriForum, my main concern has always been that everybody should be equal before the law. I ve known, read and have seen that there is more and more perception that there might be selective prosecutions. If that is so, then it s absolutely brilliant to have an organisation that ensures that everybody is equal before the law, Nel told reporters in Pretoria. I ve not had a single question my political affiliation at any discussion with AfriForum. I ve never had a political agenda, and I don t have one now. I ve been a prosecutor for 36 years and I think I ve built up integrity that I m proud of. I won t sell my integrity and do something that I don t believe in. Nel who apparently prides himself on his "Bulldog" nickname challenged South Africans and the international community to follow his career closely and observe if he loses focus.He said the private prosecutions will not be pursued through the media. We have decided not to prosecute people through the media. I think it s a hurtful and harmful process of splashing all over the media who you are pursuing and what you are pursuing. Once we have decided to pursue a certain matter, we will certainly do so, said Nel.He was with AfriForum chief executive Kallie Kriel at the well-attended media conference. Nel said it was a tough decision to take the AfriForum offer to initiate and lead the private prosecuting unit.Nel led the prosecution of a number of high-profile cases, including that of disgraced former Paralympian Oscar Pistorius who killed his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp in 2013. Judge Thokozile Masipa sentenced Pistorius to five years in 2014. The State s appeal against the sentence, seen by many as too lenient for the crime, led the Supreme Court of Appeal to overturn the initial culpable homicide conviction to murder. Masipa then sentenced Pistorius for the second time, to six years.Other celebrated cases included the prosecution of the late former police national commissioner and head of Interpol Jackie Selebi, whom Nel convicted for corruption. He served just a few months of his sentence before he was released on medical parole in 2012.Nel also led the prosecution against Clive Derby-Lewis and Janusz Walus, who were jailed for the murder of Struggle hero Chris Hani in 1993.Africa News Agency