JOHANNESBURG Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba said he would be laying criminal charges against hundreds of people who disrupted a council meeting and destroyed city property on Thursday.ANC members protesting Joburg Mayor Herman Mashaba in the CBD. (Pictures from a city official) pic.twitter.com/CRAwG6NEApAt least 300 people, alleged to be members of the Johannesburg Social Movement (JSM), stormed the council sitting in Braamfontein at which Mashaba was scheduled to table the 2016/17 Medium-Term Revenue and Expenditure Framework for adoption.They were apparently protesting against Mashaba's cancellation of the Jozi@Work programme, a jobs initiative of former mayor Parks Tau.READ: MEC accuses Mashaba of being anti-poor for halting Jozi work and bread projectsThe protesters, wearing yellow overalls and jackets, stormed the council chamber, allegedly threatening councillors and employees while trashing furniture and smashing glass doors. Police had to use stun grenades to disperse them.ANC members protesting Joburg Mayor Herman Mashaba in the CBD. (Pictures from a city official) pic.twitter.com/yBPIujQ2Xj#JoburgCouncil why would people break staff when protesting. I fail to understand this pic.twitter.com/r3VcjlOL9wMashaba said this was a blatant attempt to prevent council from passing the adjustment budget and bringing change to the residents of the city. I condemn the violence that has broken out at the Johannesburg Council in the strongest terms; it has not place in our democracy, Mashaba said in a statement.Those responsible for the violence and damage to City property today must be held accountable and I will be laying criminal charges.The protest was clearly organised by the ANC in a bid to derail Council proceedings. The blame must be put squarely at the feet of the ANC.Notably, many ANC councillors arrived today in yellow jackets for the first time, similar to those worn by the protestors...... and could clearly be used as a means to distinguish between ANC councillors and all other councillors whose lives were placed at risk.The ANC lost control of Joburg metro to the Democratic Alliance-led coalition arrangement following the August local government elections. Today s protest was clearly organised by the ANC in a bid to derail Council proceedings. The blame must be put squarely at the feet of the ANC who assisted, Mashaba said. The ANC caucus left council to address their members and then led them into the council building where the ensuing havoc broke out."DA Johannesburg chairperson Khume Ramulifho called the disruption nothing less than undemocratic thuggery .ANC Joburg spokesperson Jolidee Matonga, condemned the destruction of property, saying that all hell had broken loose when Mashaba refused to receive the memorandum from Jozi@Work employees.African News Agency