Serena. Venus. Richard. Oracene.The line has now been drawn. In a game where lines are so crucial, there is no room left to doubt. Billie Jean King, one tennis s greatest champions from the past century, captured it best: "To us there is one word that defines a champion: Serena."We seem to have run out of superlatives. The dream of one Black man, Richard Williams, has become the reality that many of us revel in. Two sisters, formidable athletes, fierce competitors: they have grown up in front of us, in the full glare of the world s cameras. Fans and detractors have demanded much of them, demand much of them still.Like many other young people thrust into the full glare of the world s unrelenting gaze, we are only too familiar with their foibles, their emotional outbursts, their joy and their grief. Partly because of the way they have played the game revolutionising the women s game with precision, finesse, footwork, speed, and power; taking the best of predecessors like Navratilova, Graf, Evert and Seles, and adding their own Williams touch and partly because of fate, there have been years away with injury or illness.In the age of ubiquitous public scrutiny of the famous, the two little girls Richard introduced to the world with the promise that they would dominate the game have grown up in the best of times, and the worst of times. They have an intense and large base of supporters around the globe. But they have also had to deal with the ugliness of detractors in that world, many of those possessively invested in racist, sexist, class-based prejudices. Still, on Saturday, in Melbourne, with both sisters in a Grand Slam final for the first time since 2009, the debate seemed to be punctuated. If it was not a full stop Serena and Venus both seem to indicate they will play on, and to the best of their formidable abilities; others in the game agree that they are playing better tennis than most at 35 and 36 it ought to end doubts about their status and their contribution to the game.Richard and Oracene, of course, deserve credit. And not only for producing these two exceptional, and exceptionally talented tennis players. But, in their off-court interviews, the sisters showed a maturity and generosity which they have often been accused of lacking. Venus, the elder sister who would go on to lose, was the first to embrace Serena, and apparently said "You are everything to me". In her runner-up speech shortly after, she reminded the world of the pride of gazing upon Serena, "my little sister", the woman both she and her father had for years indicated was the greater player.One flashed back to images of the Williams sisters in their pre-teen and teen years, before they launched their professional careers. Richard is in many of those pictures, protectively hugging his daughters. There is the early interview in which he is protective of Venus s dignity, dressing down the interviewer for questioning his daughter s confidence. The calm look of confidence on Venus s face as she waits for the interview to resume is a lesson for all of us raising daughters. It was the look which she bore when she had to indicate to an interviewer ahead of Saturday s historic final "I m not chump change".To watch Serena Williams play is indeed a beautiful thing, as Venus reminded us when she herself made the final. Her exuberant expression of joy, and her explanation after that she in no way meant to take anything away from her opponent, Coco Vanderweghe, traced the journey from the little girl to the adult woman. Serena, consistently generous about her opponents, had to correct another interviewer for mischaracterising her match against Lucie Safarova as a "scrappy affair". The disrespect of the opponent s worth, and of her own work, was what she seemed to object to, and she did so calmly, but clearly. Again, a lesson for those of us raising daughters.It is the Age of Serena, triumphant. It is the Age of Venus, rising, again. If neither wins another match after Saturday where spectator expectations were once again excessive, and the mix of emotion, love, respect, and competition made meant it would never be the sort of spectacle many expected: the best match of their lives they will still have to be recognised as the greatest athletes in their sport, if not in any sport. What began in 1998 continues still. Richard s dream, Oracene s work, and the instantiation of all that in daughters as beautiful and talented as Venus and Serena have shown themselves to be over the two weeks of the Australian Open. They have come a long way. We have come a long way with them.And still, they rise eNCA