CANBERRA - Messages of support have flooded into the Brumbies offices following the tragic news of the death of ex-Brumbies star Dan Vickerman on the weekend.Brumbies social media was inundated with tributes to the amiable South African-born Vickerman following the shock news of his passing.Devastating news about Dan Vickerman. Thoughts are with his family. pic.twitter.com/ONOncTXBZ3RIP #danvickerman @wallabies_rugby ------------------ pic.twitter.com/kh8dlKWvNvOur thoughts and condolences go out to the family and friends, and all who knew Dan, at this difficult time. RIP Dan Vickerman.Tributes from the club were led by Head Coach Stephen Larkham who played at club and international level with Vickerman.READ: SA-born Wallaby rugby star Vickerman dies It s very sad and tragic news and my heart goes out to Sarah and the kids, Larkham said. Dan was a well-respected individual in the rugby community and someone that the players looked up to. He was uncompromising and consistent and was certainly one of my favourite players to play with. At our pre-season camp when we asked the group to select their greatest ever Brumbies team, Dan polled on a number of the lists which shows the respect in which he was regarded. READ: Joost van der Westhuizen diesBrumbies CEO Michael Thomson echoed Larkham s words about the player who donned the Brumbies jersey on 32 occasions. The loss of Dan is a real tragedy, Thomson commented. He was a respected man both on and off the rugby field and his loss has been felt within the rugby community in Canberra. We would urge anyone who is having challenges in their life to seek appropriate support. Former Brumbies and Australia wing Joe Roff was one of a number of high-profile players to pay their respects to their former team-mate. It s shocking, certainly here at the Brumbies we believe in that notion of it being a family and we ve lost a genuine member of the family who made a genuine contribution to rugby here, Roff told the Canberra Times. He was a great guy, very serious, very dedicated, very strong on values and his love for his family and team. He was an intelligent but hard footballer, and had all the attributes that made him a world class rugby player and a great member of the team. It s just very sad. Vickerman passed away at his family home in Sydney on Saturday evening. He was just 37 years of age. African News Agency