JOHANNESBURG Africa s business events representatives will converge on the Sandton Convention Centre to network this week for the Meeting Africa showcase of the continent and its diverse services and products. Find out why you should attend Africa s biggest business tourism exhibition: https://t.co/mMNYp697E1 #MeetingsAfrica17 pic.twitter.com/YcYZ5ZTN5mThe three-day event is also aimed at promoting and positioning South Africa as the most sought-after business tourism destination in Africa.SA Tourism CEO Sisa Ntshona says it is time that Africa uses to its advantage the view of many around the world that Africa is a country rather than a continent. By nature these conferences rotate so we want to make sure that Africa gets its opportunity to attract some of these things, this is huge business, says Ntshona. This is now showcasing the continent and, more importantly, is that we now invite the world s buyers, who are people who decide where the conferences go to. How wonderful to connect with fellow Africans and reconnect with a true African at the #MeetingsAfrica17 @SA_NCB pic.twitter.com/xLUHAa576INtshona says that Africa, and South Africa in particular, is catching up with the world s leading city hosts like Las Vegas. We are slowly catching up, the ICC in Cape Town is extending. Everything is around capacity because ... when [people] want to come to Africa but we don t have a venue of a capacity of 20, 000 that becomes a barrier, says Ntshona. We are adding more capacity and making sure that it attracts some of the world s key events. [WATCH] @sisantshona on the role of tourism in #MeetingsAfrica's three day global exhibition. #DStv 403 pic.twitter.com/3i38VJFUg9With South Africa being the leading tourism destination on the continent, SA Tourism believes that competing and collaborating with other African countries will propel the continent to greater heights on the world stage. We want to use the whole narrative of Africa being the second fastest-growing economic bloc after Asia and get some of that activity, says Ntshona. There is a lot curiosity around our continent and we want to expose it, and what greater way to showcase who we are and what we are through these conferences. Ntshona believes that with South Africa s economy not growing and the mining industry not performing as it used to, tourism has the potential to fill the void. eNCA