JOHANNESBURG Kaizer Chiefs boss Bobby Motaung has confirmed that the club has signed Gustavo Paez on a two-and-half year deal. We invited Paez for trials after identifying him through our scouting network, said Motaung. "The team has been playing well and creating ample chances but we ve struggled to convert them. Kaizer Chiefs have scored 18 in 15 matches.READ: Motaung says Chiefs can win leagueGustavo Paez (26), Venezuelan national with an Italian passport, arrived in Naturena as a free agent.Breaking News! #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/IjUSUQeauWPaez played the last two seasons for Venezuela s Sociedad Civil Estudiantes De Merida FC. In the period he spent with us on trial, we observed aspects that we need in the team, comments Motaung. He has good technical abilities and is a team player. We welcome him and wish him all of the best. There are no guarantees in football but we are confident that he will form part of the solution in our goal scoring area. Amakhosi also welcome the return of Camaldine Abraw, who underwent knee surgery at the beginning of the season. We are happy with the recovery of Abraw, says Motaung. He is back in full training and we have reregistered him. Welcome back Abraw #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/Ls5nrDk9ZXREAD: Motaung: Hands off Komphela Abraw is a marksman, which is a clear indication of intent to improve the Amakhosi s firing line.Following Lorenzo Gordinho s contract extension, Amakhosi are delighted to confirm another extension. Erick "Tower" Mathoho has renewed his stay. We are glad Tower has signed a new deal with us, says Motaung.Breaking News: Erick Mathoho has signed a contract extension with the Club and has committed to remain in Naturena until 2020 #Amakhosi4Life pic.twitter.com/BhxJTn0fkL Tower signed a three-year extension to his existing contract. Good news, the "Tough as Teak" defender has committed to remain at Naturena until 2020. Chiefs have so far kept the most clean sheets in the league and are amongst the teams that conceded the least number of goals, 12 from 15 matches in the league.Paez s signing and the contract extensions follow hot on the heels of the arrival of Joseph "Tight" Molangoane whose signing was finalised towards the end of last year. Remember, it is not long ago that we concluded the signing of Molangoane in November, reacts Motaung. Tight came in and has already showed his class by giving us some dimension in the team. Africa News Agency