CAPE TOWN - During his 2017 Budget Speech, Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan set the essential trend of the framework for the next three years: Wealth and economic opportunities must be equitably shared. WATCH: Gordhan - 'Those who earn more must pay more'Gordhan summarized the crux of the various aspects of the budget, saying there will be obligations imposed on government, but almost equally so on all stakeholders, including the business sector. #Budget2017 Pravin Gordhan on key features of the framework pic.twitter.com/hvAlIynnAu He highlighted the harsh realities such as the fact that 95% of the country s wealth lines the pockets of only 10% of the population; 75% of school-leavers without a Matric certificate will still be unemployed within five years; over half the pupils in Gr 5 can t read adequately and that the country remains divide with poverty still very much concentrated in rural areas and townships.Break cycle of povertyIn recent months President Jacob Zuma has spoken of radical economic transformation, and various factions, unions and individuals would like to see how this is to be implemented.In a pre-budget media briefing on Wednesday, Gordhan says although statements like these might sound nice, they have no meaning. We need to go beyond slogans, he said.Gordhan said we should ask how this affects South Africans, as individuals: In other words, who benefits? Essentially, you can t have an elite group pocket all the wealth We need to set a basic goal to break poverty and inequality. It is unacceptable and immoral. During the media briefing Gordhan said the whole system needed an overhaul, and that all South Africans must be taught how to collect assets. We have poor people selling RDP houses they receive at a fraction of the price, because they need money This is our concern - how do the poor lift themselves? Summary of the 2017 BudgetGordhan did not beat about the bush with harsh facts. Economic growth is slow, unemployment is far too high and many business and families are under stress, he said early in his speech.Among global uncertainty - such as the recent Brexit and various European elections, Gordhan stressed we need to overcome inequalities and divisions in out societies. Change is difficult, and often contested, he said. #Budget2017 Pravin Gordhan on budget allocation for economic growth pic.twitter.com/yH7SQrbMS9 Some key features of the framework for the 2017 Budget include: Expenditure within the envelope projected in last year s budget. An additional R28 billion to be raised in taxes. Government expects moderate GDP growth recovery. Gordhan said expectation at this stage is that GDP growth will increase fro 0,5% last year to 1,3% in 2017. He also said mining continues to underperform. Mining and manufacturing employment has declines by 80 000 jobs in 2016. Redistribution in support of education, health services and municipal functions in rural areas remains the central thrust of government spending programmes. #Budget2017 Pravin Gordhan on SA GDP growth recovery pic.twitter.com/jVY1hoHyC6 #Budget2017 Pravin Gordhan on government debt pic.twitter.com/qa4MjJHJec Government s wage bill has stabilised. Procurement reforms continue to improve the effectiveness of public spending and opening opportunities for small business participation.Our state-owned companies and finance institutions play a substantial role in infrastructure investment and financing development. Their borrowing requirements are taken into account in the overall fiscal framework.Gordhan also announced that commodity prices have rebounded, and the exchange rate has recovered from its rapid depreciation last year. Production stoppages associated with industrial disputes have been comparatively low and electricity supply has improved, allowing new connections and industrial demand to be accommodated, he said.Gordhan added they know what to do to get themselves out of the present low growth trap.He outlined the following imperatives to boost investment in the short term: #Budget2017 Pravin Gordhan on how to boost investment short term pic.twitter.com/hvWMYcSK8s Gordhan reiterated that the Budget Review serves a role to provide extensive details of developments in the economy, budget plans and the programmes and activities of government departments and public entities. But there is a larger purpose, a moral vision and intent behind these plans and programmes, he said. We need to build a new national consensus and a new commitment to deliver, focused on the triple challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequality. President Zuma articulated this intent in the State of the Nation Address, rightly emphasising the radical nature of the socio- economic transformation we need. #Budget2017 Pravin Gordhan on transformation programmes pic.twitter.com/TL2qecKw9z Our growth challenge is intertwined with our transformation imperative. We need to transform in order to grow, we need to grow in order to transform. Without transformation, growth will reinforce inequality; without growth, transformation will be distorted by patronage. #Budget2017 Gordhan: Consolidated spending in 2017/18 pic.twitter.com/UeVnBfCUX2 #Budget2017 Pravin Gordhan gives the main elements of the budget, basically in a nutshell pic.twitter.com/3JDJjrX5TzWATCH: Highlights from #Budget2017 below. -eNCA/Jana RoosTweets about #Budget2017 AND (FROM:@TreasuryRSA since:2017-02-22 until:2017-02-23)