CAPE TOWN - Ajax Cape Town head coach Stanley Menzo is looking forward to what he anticipates to be a highly competitive clash against a confident Kaizer Chiefs side at Athlone Stadium on Saturday at 8.15pm.The Urban Warriors head into the clash on the back of a 1-1 stalemate against Polokwane City, with the Cape club having yet to win in the New Year.In contrast, Steve Komphela s troops are on a rich run of form having won five games on the trot in the Absa Premiership.READ: Ajax Cape Town welcome former Manchester United goalkeeper appointmentAs a result, Chiefs currently sit in second place on the log standings a point behind log leaders Bidvest Wits. If I am honest and I don t know why (I feel like this), but I d rather play a team like Kaizer Chiefs than a Polokwane City for example, or teams that wait for the counter-attack, Menzo said at Ikamva earlier this week..@KaizerChiefs Is coach Steve Komphela coming out of retirement? In that case, I'm sure Nathan Paulse is up for the challenge.#WeAreAjaxCT pic.twitter.com/HFnTomlRZm Chiefs are a team that like to play, like to have the ball, as a result, there will be space for us to play. We are also a team that likes to play, likes to have the ball so it will be more a football game than a tactical game in terms of waiting for a mistake and then counter-attack.Menzo continued: It will be a very interesting game playing against a good team with good players, who are on a good run. Let s see if we are able to disrupt their way of playing and if we are able to play our own game, and I think if we play our own game we will have more possibilities. The former Dutch international was honest when asked about his knowledge of the Glamour Boys; stating that he is not too familiar with all their personal, but was clear in the fact that the Naturena-based club boasts a very experienced squad. A squad that has achieved success in South Africa. I don t know the team so well, but I know it is a quality team, a team that likes to play football, Menzo added. I think the individual skills of players they are very experienced and mature so they know when and where they can hurt us. We have to be aware of that. We can t give too much space away, we have to keep the field very tight so to speak and when we get our chances, we have to be more efficient. If we get five chances [for example] we have to score two at least. That is something we have to do. They are a good team, a team with a lot of confidence at the moment, it will be a fight and in this fight, we have to play good football, Menzo concluded.Graham suspendedAjax will also be without captain Travis Graham for the fixture at Athlone Stadium.The Urban Warriors skipper has accumulated a total of four yellow cards and will, as a result, be suspended for the much-anticipated match against the high-flying Amakhosi.Menzo added that Grant Margeman will also be unavailable for selection as he is currently away on national duty with the South Africa Under-20 national team. One suspension: Travis Graham, said Menzo. Not very smart, when you are on three yellow cards to get a yellow card for talking (against Polokwane City). It is disappointing. More disappointing is the fact that we will also be without midfielder Grant Margeman because he is on duty with the national team, it is a really big loss. As far as I know there are no other injuries.African News Agency