CAPE TOWN - South Africans reeling from the tax hikes announced yesterday to fill a R28-billion hole in the state s finances should take comfort in that they are not alone the president, his cabinet and the rich in general will have to endure the pain, too.READ: #Budget2017: Tax hike for top earnersPresident Jacob Zuma will feel Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan s sting from next month when he will be forced to cough up more in taxes as his R2.87-million a year salary crosses the threshold of the new R1.5-million a year tax bracket and its marginal 45% rate. A rough calculation that assumes that his entire package would be taxed (which would not be the case) has the president paying R1.1-million a year in taxes.But, whichever way the sums work out, Zuma is going to be experiencing some of the pain.Joining him and the 100,000 other South Africans estimated to fall into the new super-tax bracket will be:The top personal income tax bracket, which will raise R4.4-billion, replaces the highest level previously 41% on a salary of R701,301.People earning R1.5-million will have to pay R533,625 in tax. Anything above this will have them being taxed 45% of whatever they earn.With the economy stuttering and revenue collection falling, the increase is part of a string of hard hitting increases in personal income tax intended to raise R16.5-billion in the 2017-2018 financial year.READ: Eight men own half the world's wealth: OxfamThe bank accounts of business moguls and the bosses of state owned entities will also be hit.Among parastatal bosses who will feel the pinch will be, according to last year s Sunday Times Rich South Africans List:University of Johannesburg tax law expert Thabo Legwaila said that, although South Africa s taxation, especially of the super rich, had not risen that much when compared to the tax regimes in Australia, Europe and Japan the question has to be: What do you get for your taxes and is it of good quality ? He said that in Australia, Europe and Japan and other countries, citizens received quality healthcare and education. In South Africa the services citizens receive are inadequate, insufficient and of poor quality. READ: The missing middle of South Africa's economic ladder threatens stabilityFree Market Foundation director Eustace Davie said the tax increase for top-earners meant someone at Zuma s level would pay about R1.1-million a year in tax.He said the effect of inflation, coupled with tax hikes, was worrying.People were paying more of their real income in tax because of inflation and tax-bracket creep .A tax system that gave people incentives was needed. Currently, the more you earn the more you are taxed. Sage tax expert Rob Cooper said the rise in the top marginal tax rate was not surprising. As a form of wealth tax, it s more politically acceptable than a VAT increase; like the national minimum wage, it has a redistributive effect that could help reduce inequality. in his Budget speech, Gordhan warned that South Africa was at a crossroads and tough choices had to be made. The Budget reflects a balance between maintaining our spending commitments and ensuring the long-term health of the public finances. iNet Bridge