CAPE TOWN - Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan has promised a capital injection to South African Airways (SAA) and the Post Office, but is yet to say how much and where the money will come from.Speaking at a media briefing before delivering his budget speech on Wednesday, Gordhan said SAA had strong prospects for a turnaround if the new board did the rights things and appointed a new CEO and chief financial officer.READ: DA calls for Dudu Myeni s head over SAA R1.16bn We will make the equity injection SAA needs, but I can t say yet where the equity injection will come from, he said.Treasury director-general Lungisa Fuzile said that Treasury was resolute that the capital injection would be financed in a deficit-neutral way . This would mean that government would either have to dispose of another asset to raise the funds or acquire an equity partner. Both SAA and the Post Office need new capital. We recapitalised the Post Office with R650m last year, but more might be needed. SAA definitely needs a capital injection which could be substantial, suffice to say, in the current environment it would have to be made in instalments over time. The first cash injection will be in this coming financial year, he said.Fuzile said that by October, when Treasury tables its medium-term budget policy statement it would be in a position to determine a specific amount.Gordhan said he had met with the new board of SAA last week and felt confident that it had a good grip on the business of the airline.Chairwoman of the board Dudu Myeni, who was unavailable to join the meeting with Gordhan, was not available for comment. But SAA deputy chairwoman Tryphosa Ramano said on Wednesday the work of SAA was focused on the review of the structure of the airline. Once that is finalised, we will then talk about whatever is needed [in terms of capital], Ramano said.South African Post Office CEO Mark Barnes said that after the speech he was optimistic for the entity. I believe that support for and confidence in the broad socioeconomic mandate is returning for the Post Office, he said.The borrowing requirement of state-owned enterprises was higher than had been anticipated last February. The public sector borrowing requirement, which includes state-owned entities and local government, will amount to R254.4bn or 5.8% of GDP R32.4bn more than was anticipated.Eskom increased its planned borrowings for 2016-17 from R46.8bn to R68.5bn. The composition of its debt also shifted due to increased borrowing from multilateral organisations. It is expected that from 2017-18 foreign loans will account for 77.3% of Eskom s funding.Over 2016, government s contingent liabilities for state owned enterprises in other words, its commitment in terms of a default grew due to additional guarantees provided to SAA (R4.7bn) and the Land Bank (R4.5bn) to lengthen the maturity of its debt.READ: Myeni says SAA needs more than five years to become profitableThe Budget Review notes that guarantees to some state owned companies remain a major risk to the fiscus. Government has also committed to procure R200bn in renewable energy from independent power producers. While these contracts are also a contingent liability, the Budget Review says that it is highly unlikely that government would have to step in. The liabilities can only materialise in two ways. If Eskom runs short of cash and is unable to buy power as stipulated or if the government terminates the power purchase agreements because it is unable to fund Eskom or there is a change in legislation or policy. Both outcomes are unlikely, it says. With Karl GernetzkyiNet Bridge