JOHANNESBURG: Times might be tough but not everyone s feeling depressed about the future, according to the latest Ipsos poll.It found three in every 10 people believe that their families will be better off in a year s time. Half of the respondents believed the situation would be unchanged while two in every 10 believed their families would be worse-off next year. Asked whether their standard of living would be better off, about the same or worse off, 26% were optimistic, 55% believed there would be little change while 19% said they expected to be worse off than a year ago. The Ipsos Pulse of the People project is conducted every six months by Ipsos South Africa.The researchers noted: Economic growth in South Africa has been very low for the last few years and citizens are feeling the pinch of rising prices and the trouble to make ends meet, therefore it is not surprising that less than a third of adults look to the future with hope. In a situation such as this, people have to make choices about where they should spend their scarce financial resources. To determine South Africans affordability, Ipsos asked respondents how easy or difficult they found a number of items, including savings for retirement, housing, education, fuel, transport, water, healthcare, education and food. It is clear that all South Africans, regardless of income, feel the pressure from rising prices as they found it more difficult to afford all the items (with the exception of electricity). The public still finds it most difficult to save for retirement and pay for a place to live, while citizens indicated that education is far more difficult to afford than little more than a year ago. "There has also been a sharp increase in the proportion who find it difficult to afford food however, South Africans are clear that increases in food prices can be linked to the drought as more than six in every 10 agreed with the statement The current drought has made food prices unaffordable . Compounded by the drought, three-quarters of adults 75% also felt that the government was not handling the issue of rising food prices well, while only 24% felt it was handling it well while 1% said they didn t know. South Africans were also not confident in how the government was handling the fluctuation in petrol prices (this has an influence on those who own vehicles as well as on those who have to pay for transport), the researchers said.Six in every 10 adults (or 62%) were also critical of the government s managing of the economy (reasons cited for this feeling include corruption and high levels of unemployment). Thirty five percent said the government was managing the economy well, while 3% said they didn t know. eNCA