JOHANNESBURG - As South Africa remember the late Jazz, fusion and mbaqanga musician Ray Phiri (70), who passed way in a Mbombela hospital on Wednesday, the "people's poet", Mzwakhe Mbuli, has been accused of trying to scam money from the estate.Phiri passed away in the early hours of the morning following a battle with lung cancer. eNCA | WATCH: South Africans pay tribute to Ray Phiri https://t.co/WpGI7aZNdD pic.twitter.com/8bMzjY6v2KThabiso Mosia, sports presenter at PowerFM, expressed his sadness at the legendary musician's death, but added that he is even "sadder" that "Mzwakhe Mbuli is already doing the talking." Saddened by Oom Ray's passing.Even sadder hearing that Mzwakhe Mbuli is already doing the talking. He's only there to steal money. Trust me.Mosia recalled scam allegations made against Mbuli in 2016, after the passing of Mandoza. Was in 2 family meetings with Mzwakhe Mbuli and his 'legends' cronies at MDZ.They tried to steal every penny, from food,sound,venue hire etcHe then warned that Mbuli's double-dealing may be overlooked by Phiri's loved ones because he is a close family friend. Read: Tributes pour in for 'musical giant' Ray PhiriWith all due respect to the family. Mzwakhe might be a family friend.But trust me,now he's there to steal.He has no good intentions at all.According to Mosia, this is how the alleged Mbuli funeral scam works... Part of the scam.They ask the family how they can help(venue hire,food, transport, sound).They then go to Ministers/MEC's to ask for the $$The Ministers/MEC then give them the $$$..But they keep most of it and pretend they didn't get enough. Family then must start all over againMosia said that Mbuli demanded R70,000 to organise a sound system at Mandoza's funeral. When Arthur Mafokate, Kwaito legend, offered a sound system for free, Mbuli was allegedly furious and Mosia was there to witness the whole incident.WATCH: South Africans pay tribute to Ray PhiriMzwakhe wanted 70k to organize sound for MDZ funeral.We(fam) said no cos @ArthurMafokate was offering his sound for free.Mzwakhe threw a fitMzwakhe and his cronies then dropped their soumd price to 35k. We still said no. They went berserk and went to consult outside. I WAS THERE.Before going outside Mzwakhe said to his cronies "Asambeni akho Mali la, Uyasbulala u @ArthurMafokate ngento za Mahala"I personally asked Mzwakhe why he would even want a penny to provide sound for a fellow musician. Surely they could provide free like ArthurMosia asked Mbuli for receipts after Mbuli assured Mandoza's love ones that he had booked the Standard Bank Arena. Mzwakhe and a guy called Morris Roda told us that had secured S Bank Arena for MDZ memorial. We were relieved until i asked them for proofDay before MDZ memorial they still couldn't provide proof.I drove to SB Arena only to find management hadn't even spoken to them.Was shockedS Bank Arena told me they do this all the time and we should not trust them. That time they'd gone to 3 ministers/mec's asking for 100k eachThe story continued to unfold as Mosia explained the events leading up to Mandoza's funeral and the day of his burial. Cut a long story short. We didn't see that 200k. Family once again had to girl out the full 90k for venue hire cos time was running out. Minister Mthethwa is the only one that didn't give them 100k cos his advisor contacted us first to ask if they should give Mzwakhe the moneyMzwakhe also has a scam involving the funeral program and who speaks/peaches/perfoms. This is one of the saddest cos pastors are involvedMzwakhe still brought his own sound guy for the funeral despite Arthur offering for free. Sound guy was mentioned 17 times by MC..'Exposure'Look at the MDZ funeral video and see my reaction when Mzwakhe calls me on stage. He knows where we stand. I don't mince my words.I still have a copy of MDZ funeral program. Will post it when I get back to SA and compare it to the people who preached/sang that day.MEC' Faith Mazibuko's reps said they had no instruction to give the money to Mzwakhe. He was furious. I was in that meeting.People took to Twitter to respond to Mosia's allegations. When Someone Famous Pass'es Away Mzwakhe Mbuli -- To The Studio ... pic.twitter.com/AwyVBolSpBSomizi just asked ask to make sure that Mzwakhe Mbuli does not attend his funeral, "Thats if i die" -------------------------------------------- pic.twitter.com/WlNNldoTkgFamous South African passes away. Mzwakhe Mbuli pic.twitter.com/Y9MY50LUncWhat does Mzwakhe Mbuli do for a Living vele? pic.twitter.com/0Fo4mdcsdgIt's really sad that every time a celebrity dies Mzwakhe Mbuli sees an opportunity to rob the mourners, adding more pain to em #RIPRayPhiri pic.twitter.com/RO6YbZgCGoYho! ---- Mzwakhe Mbuli kanti unje??! pic.twitter.com/QThCCDKawyMZWAKHE MBULI On Hearing Ray Phiri's Passing #MzwakheMbuli pic.twitter.com/5ohRsPUvFXMbuli has not responded to Mosia's allegations. Main man Mzwakhe Mbuli might call a presser tomorrow, to respond to the allegations gations tions levelled against him ----------.eNCA