JOHANNESBURG - Issues around women, children and marginalised groups dominated discussions by the social transformation commission at the ANC's National Policy Conference (NPC).Speaking at a media feedback session, the party's social transformation chair Lindiwe Sisulu said the party wanted to rebuild the social fabric of society.The party believed this was possible through harsher prison sentences and by improving legislation to protect vulnerable groups, including women, children, the LGBTI community and people living with albinism. The establishment of special children's courts was suggested. "An example was made of how children will go to court and their cases are postponed and six months later they have to relive the experience of having been violated."We believe that this isn't good and we'd like to urge the justice sector to ensure that violence against children be prioritised." Sisulu: More attention to child-headed households. Child support grant extended 18 to 21 provided beneficiaries are still studying. #ANCNPCManamela: "It's not our business to be regulating how people should dressed." On a journo question on dress code for women. (I know right!)Sisulu said that after analysing the phenomenon of domestic violence, it became clear the matter was beyond the reach of the country's law enforcement agencies."They (women) report this (violence) and soon thereafter are back in the same fold, and it's a recurring crime."We'd like to find that we have other ways of dealing with this matter where women are empowered to stand up and ensure that they're able to look after their children and protect their children. Which is why we want to make sure we can ensure a greater number of women in our community policing forums." [WATCH] #ANCNPC: #LindiweSisulu raises concerns in the rise of violence against women & children. Courtesy #DStv403 https://t.co/7JNtQvCfx5 pic.twitter.com/hGOCYCvHfASome committee members raised the issue of free sanitary towels, amid recent debates on why condoms were provided to the public for free, but sanitary towels were not. Sisulu said feminine hygiene projects should be free for school pupils. Deputy Minister in the Presidency Buti Manamela added that the free distribution of condoms could not be compared to sanitary towels. She said the focus of condom distribution was to ensure safe sexual activity."We've resolved that the state should provide free sanitary towels. But we think that (comparing condom distribution to providing free sanitary towels) stereotypes the availability of free condoms wherever they are available to men - that there are condoms for boys or men, whereas condoms are used for the protection of those involved in sexual activity."One thing the commission could not agree on was a suggestion by the ANC in Gauteng for the decriminalisation of sex work. eNCA