LONDON The Proteas received a thorough workout during their three-day match against the England Lions at New Road in Worcester, which ended in a draw on Saturday. SA captain @faf1307 could be back in England in time to lead the Proteas in the first test at Lord's.https://t.co/VJtpoVVWDlThe home team finished on 266/4 declared after 80 overs, in response to South Africa's first innings total of 382/6 declared.The bowlers all managed to run in for three spells, with Morne Morkel (1/49) and Chris Morris (1/35) the most successful and economical of the pacemen.Read: Proteas women firmly focussed for Sunday s West Indies fixtureKeshav Maharaj, the only frontline spinner in the squad, was equally impressive as an effective holding option in his 18 overs.Proteas bowling coach, Charl Langeveldt, said the players benefited from the outing ahead of the first Test match against England, starting at Lord s on July 6. Some excellent bowling at the death by the Proteas as they restrict England to 181/8 in the third T20 in Cardiff. #EngvSA pic.twitter.com/GdfNjFyHCUThe Proteas were boosted by the news that Vernon Philander was declared fit and would be available for selection for the first match. It was important that we got overs under the belt, Langeveldt said in Worcester on Saturday. Our guys bowled well, besides the no-balls. We got two wickets off no-balls, which is a concern."It is something that we will need to correct going forward. It has been a problem in the past but KG (Rabada) has had a few weeks off so he will hit his straps on Monday and will be ready for Thursday. Read: Curran takes three wickets as De Villers stars for Proteas"As a bowling unit I think we went well. We bowled in good areas; their batsmen batted well. The guys have been playing a lot of cricket, even though it hasn t been Test cricket, Langeveldt said. They have been bowling a lot in the nets and working hard on their skills. We are playing four Tests so I want the players to be fresh but in good rhythm as well. Today was a good day, most of the bowlers bowled about 10 15 overs. The squad were set to travel to London on Sunday when the focus would shift to the final preparations ahead of the first Test.African News Agency