JOHANNESBURG - South African Airways is receiving yet another bailout . The airline will get R2.3 billion cash injection with no stringent conditions attached.The airline will use the money to repay its loan from Standard Chartered Bank - one of many debts that lapsed at the end of last month.Global ratings agency Fitch previously called on government to better manage its state-owned entities. The risk of the SOE s to the sovereign are not just theoretical," Jan Friedrich from Fitch Ratings said. "Eskom needed a cash injection in 2015. And SAA now needs government support. The fiscal risks are heightened by expected weakening of SOE governance. Existing SOE liabilities are more likely to land on the government s balance sheet. And the stock of liabilities will rise faster than expected. READ: Treasury failing in its oversight of SAA says parliamentary committeeSAA is reportedly bleeding nearly R370 million a month, while relying on government guarantees of about R20 billion to stay afloat.The airline posted a net loss of R1.9-billion rand in March this year.Economists say the latest bailout could spark another ratings downgrade. There is a probability that we get another downgrade and the danger this time round is if we do get another credit downgrade, especially in relation to Moodys and Standard and Poors downgrading our local currency debt, which is currently just one notch above junks status, another downgrade will take us to junk status on that debt, said Azar Jammine, the chief economist for Econometrix.READ: PIC suggested as equity partner for bleeding SAAThe Finance Minister believes the bailout will have no impact on the fiscus. We ve used fund that were available in a fiscal neutral way, said Malusi Gigaba. "It will not affect the fiscal framework in any particular way. We will provide an extensive report to Parliament as well as to cabinet. But mainly parliament. The crisis at SAA has forced Gigaba to tap into the country's National Revenue Fund - an emergency pool of cash that's reserved for exceptional situations.READ: SAA's Myeni under fireANC Treasurer General Zweli Mkhize said government was compelled to bailout SAA."We have to balance various priorities....the question is how do we balance all of this, all we have to work the management of the SOEs to ensure they run profitable entities are self-sufficient so they won t require bailouts. Before that happened, we have to end up with emergency intervention, at the end of the day has to run and we have to balance those difficult priorities."Since 1999, the airline has received over R13 billion from government.Taxpayers will now be waiting to hear whether SAA plans to return to profitability.eNCA