BRISTOL - Rain may have dampened South Africa s start to the ICC Women s World Cup but Chloe Tryon is ready to light the fireworks for their next match against England at Bristol on Wednesday.It's a cold and rainy practice for #ProteasWomen today in Bristol. Our outdoor session has been moved indoors. #wwc17 #AlwaysRising pic.twitter.com/fed1YTMAYXThe South Africa batter has been part of the international set-up since she was 16 and has now progressed to being vice-captain of the side.Her 92 off 68 balls against Ireland in 2016 is her best score in ODIs to date but she would love to score her maiden hundred during the ICC Women s World Cup 2017.She scored three runs in the opening game against Pakistan and then saw her chances of bettering that score hit by a wash-out against New Zealand in Derby.The Proteas' great #WWC2017 form continues with another win. They remain unbeaten with their next match against hosts England on Wednesday. pic.twitter.com/4i3mQYtHntShe may have calmed down her explosive style over the years, but says she is still capable of bringing out the big shots if it feels right. I take each game as it comes, I like to play my natural game, Tryon said. If it s fireworks, it s fireworks.READ: South Africa see off Pakistan in Women's World Cup I used to be a big hitter when I first came into the team but now I have established myself a lot more trying to build an innings and get to that 100. I feel like I ve fallen short a bit too much now. I owe it to myself to get over the line and make my first 100. It would be the best place to do it at the World Cup.The vice-captain of South Africa hopes to score her maiden ODI hundred at the World Cup. It is an honour and a blessing to be made vice-captain, it has helped me with my confidence a bit more. It s a learning curve but I m excited to get going. I came in about seven years ago and it s been a good ride so far. I feel like I m in my prime at the moment, I ve learned a lot on the way. A lot of other girls came in around the same time as me so we have a good understanding, it has been good. South Africa has been steadily improving over the last five years and its performance in the pre-WWC Quadrangular series showed they are capable of competing with the very best.In the final, South Africa fell just short against India but Tryon feels the team took plenty away from the tournament. READ: Record-breaking Van Niekerk blows away WindiesShe added: We ve been working really hard the last five years, the way we have grown as a team we owe it to ourselves to bring the trophy home. We have been working really hard, we have a good team, the vibes are good, we ve just been working hard together, and we re going to take this World Cup as it comes and focus on every game and work towards that goal. Despite being thousands of miles from South Africa, Tryon says there is still a homely feel to this ICC Women s World Cup 2017 as she has family in England.But despite living in London she insists there will be no dispute as to where allegiances lie during the tournament when the two teams meet in Bristol.She added: I have family members who moved over here quite a few years ago. They are English but they will always be South Africans at heart. They will be supporting South Africa, they will not be able to come if they support England. African News Agency