JOHANNESBURG - The drop in the repo rate will encourage consumer spending and boost economic growth, according to economist Francois Stofberg."The repo rate is coming down now 0.25 percent, as you've heard. That's good news for those of us unfortunate enough to be in debt, and even more so depending on how much debt you have," he said on Thursday."It's a couple of hundred rand every month and that's what adds up at the end of the day. The more indebted you are, the more you'll feel you're being helped out now," he said.The SA Reserve Bank's monetary policy committee earlier announced a decrease in the repo rate to 6.75 percent from 7 percent.The prime lending rate drops to 10.25 percent. A welcome 25 bps interest rate cut,a relief for consumers but not good for those who rely on their savings.For investments it is too little!Stofberg, an economist with Efficient Group, said: "I think what the Reserve Bank is trying to do, and [the governor] said it very well, is that you can't fix the economy with monetary policy. We can try and aid economic growth with stable prices ..."... and we can cut rates a bit and that's what they're trying to do now, is to give that extra bit of buying power to see if we can get the consumer to spend some more, and from the demand side try and help the economy out. [The economy] has really just been doing worse for measure over the last couple of years. Breathe a tiny sigh of relief my debt-laden brothers and sisters. #SARB reduces repo rate by 25 basis points [0.25%]. pic.twitter.com/GnzjYVdJ12"So, in the end, it will only be a couple of hundred rands a month but it will add up. That's why I mentioned the whole pool of indebtedness in South Africa that will put it more into perspective." Stofberg said total debt was at about R1.3-trillion, which it would now cost less to service."It does put a lot of extra buying power in the hands of the consumer. I think it comes at a good time because the consumer has been really under a lot of pressure over the last couple of years." Stofberg believes the rate might be cut further this year."We initially didn't think they would decrease now, but ...they did [so] they'll most likely decrease again this year. So we'll most likely see another decrease in November."The reason for thinking we wouldn't see another decrease now is because it's a very drastic decision to change strategies so severely, I know they haven't changed in 15 months, but the governor did give some guidance saying they had reached the end of their hiking cycle."We knew it would be flat, but this does seem to indicate a change in policy stance, a change in strategy ... they've considerably reduced their inflation outlooks for this year, down from 5.7 to 5.3 percent, and even [for] next year and the year after. So they seem to believe that inflation is well under target now just above 5 percent. Yes, it's not the 3 or 4 percent that maybe they would want at the upper end but not the 6-plus percent saw. So they're in a good position to reduce rates now," he said. eNCA