JOHANNESBURG ANC delegates at the 5th national policy conference have proposed numerous changes in a bid to arrest the scourge of corruption and perceived corruption which continues to harm the governing party. There are fairly comprehensive suggestions and recommendations that will now go to the branches, looking at issues of social distance and addressing the social distance how do we address the questions around corruption and [there are] very firm suggestions on how the ANC must deal with corruption, the party s Febe Potgieter-Gqubule said as she addressed media on recommendations of the organisational renewal and strategy and tactics commissions. If there are allegations of corruption, the provincial, national and regional secretaries have the responsibility if action is not taken, they would be held accountable for the lack of action and they will have to explain why action has not been taken. The delegates have also recommended that the ANC needs to distance itself from corruption, whether in its ranks, including individuals within the party or outside its structures, supporters or donors. Recommendations that were made around combating corruption and restoring the integrity of the ANC include the strengthening of the integrity committee that was adopted in the last conference. The proposal going to branches [from the conference] is that the integrity committee must become an independent structure with constitutional powers within the ANC to be able to summon anybody to account. They will have the power to make decisions and they will then report the decisions on any matter to the structure of the organisation, she said.#ANCNPC Febe: The powers of the ANC Integrity Committee must be strengthened. Ppl should also be suspended while facing disciplinary action.#ANCNPC Netshitenzhe: Discussions around the #GuptaEmails emphasised the need for urgency to turn things around in the ANC.#ANCNPC Febe:We certainly don't think it is too late.We hope the measures [being taken to Dec]will reverse that decline & bolster integrity.Earlier on Tuesday, ANC veteran and author, Sindiso Mfenyana, confirmed that the ANC Integrity Commission wanted President Jacob Zuma step aside.Analysts are divided as to whether the proposal goes far enough.[EARLIER] #ANCNPC: Political Analyst @LukhonaMnguni on proposals around the Integrity Commission. Courtesy DStv 403 pic.twitter.com/MaIhhDASVtPotgieter also said selegates at the ANC's national policy conference want a smaller National Executive Council. "There seems to be a general view that will be confirmed by the structures of the ANC after the policy conference that we need to reduce the size of the NEC that we need much small workable NEC that are able discuss issues, that are able to process issues," she told media. "But also ensure that you do have the best in the NEC making up and consisting of that NEC. And the size matter from anything between 40 and 60 people. At the moment we have the NEC of 80 directly elected members."eNCA