PORT ELIZABETH An alleged fake lawyer who spun legal analysis for news organisations for years will now be prosecuted for fraud involving more than half a million rand. Brenda Wardle was denied bail in the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court on Monday. #fraud @BrendaWardle bail denied. Case remanded to 27 July. Wardle allegedly pretended to be lawyer-offering to assist a convicted murderer pic.twitter.com/yshAYfhcpJA so-called legal analyst and author, Wardle, 56, was arrested in East London earlier in June after evading court for more than a year.Read: Opposition parties slam Public Protector interview processWardle shot to fame when she provided international legal analysis on the murder trial of Paralympian Oscar Pistorius. South African Legal Analyst Brenda Wardle Provides an Up-Close Look at the Oscar Pistorius Trial | Spencer Memorial https://t.co/rIsHwWnVWZShe also appeared on the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) and the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) television providing legal analysis to viewers. Is k.k maar is oraait! And so the games begin!On her Facebook profile, she boasts that she wrote a number of books on high-profile court cases, which include those of British businessman Shrien Dewani, President Jacob Zuma and Czech fugitive Radovan Krejcir. She also wrote a book on the state s case against Pistorius.Wardle is charged for allegedly pretending to be a lawyer and offering her "services" to a convicted murder. Brenda Wardle's bail has been denied. Case has been remanded to the 27 July. The legal analyst is charged with fraud. @AlgoaFMNewsAccording to the state, in April 2009 and August 2013, Wardle was paid R538,766 to assist Stephanus van Aardt's bid for early release on parole.The state alleges that Wardle pretended to be an attorney and could not bring an application for Van Aardt s early release. Brenda Wardle Covers the High Profile Oscar Pistorius Trail | Baker Street Reviews https://t.co/Su1xtpVdYHVan Aardt, an Eastern Cape dairy farmer in Somerset East, was further not eligible to have his term of imprisonment converted.Read: Fraud-accused Gupta lawyer accuses media of smear campaignIn 2007, Van Aardt was convicted of murder and sentenced to 12 years imprisonment for the assault and death of a 15-year-old.In February 2006, Van Aardt assaulted Eliot Magabane,15, by punching, kicking and stamping on him with booted feet and hitting him with a spade. The boy sustained multiple injuries, including six broken ribs and brain injuries. He died the following month. Do you know what is strange? I often utter these words silently when people have been murdered. https://t.co/BC0aOv6rPOWardle, who is conducting her own defence, has a previous conviction for fraud.Prosecutor Tjaart van Zyl opposed bail on Monday based on Wardle having demonstrated a pattern of evading court appearances in similar cases.The case against her was postponed until 27 July. African News Agency