JOHANNESBURG - The Black Land First (BLF) movement was given until midday on Saturday to stop harassing and intimidating journalists, or face legal action from the South African National Editor's Forum (Sanef). SANEF's written to Black First Land First following their statement today in which they 'warn white journalists'. Here's our full letter... pic.twitter.com/bW59GctVz0 On Friday, the BLF threatened white journalists it accused of being agents of white monopoly capital.This included Peter Bruce, Adriaan Basson, Barry Bateman, Max du Preez, Stephen Grootes and Alex Hogg. Black First Land First has posted names of white journalists it says #BLF will be targeting as "they are racists, not journalists". Can't. pic.twitter.com/a6xRL1vXuyImplied threats were also made against Ferial Haffajee, Eusebius McKaiser and Karima Brown, with BLF saying they must repent (and) ask for forgiveness from black people for being used by white monopoly capital. #PeterBruce believes his opinion piece in #BusinessDay sparked the Black First Land First protest outside his residence. Courtesy DStv 403 pic.twitter.com/lzGXTEA9ZD READ: ANC condemns BLF intimidation of journalist Peter BruceBrown spoke out about the threats and labelled the BLF a right-wing ultra nationalist organisation."I think the... organisation isn't a political movement. It's a group of hired thugs for the Zuma faction and I think they're also in the employ of the Gupta family, Brown said. When they spoke with eNCA about why they went to intimidate Peter Bruce, the former editor of Business Day, a couple of days ago, they said they were there to protect the President because he's black and protect the Guptas because they're black. So what you have here is a right-wing ultra nationalist organisation that is race-baiting journalists and opponents that they believe are servicing this phony narrative that they're trying to put into the SA political agenda - white monopoly capital."WATCH: SA editor's forum responds to harassment of journalistsIn April, Sunday Times investigative journalist Mzilikazi wa Afrika, received death threats after reporting on suspect lucrative tenders Eskom had awarded.Meanwhile, government expressed sadness at the recent deaths of journalists, including one of the so-called SABC 8 journalists, Suna Venter.The 32-year old's body was found at her flat in Fairlands on Thursday morning.Venter was diagnosed with a cardiac condition known as Broken Heart Syndrome, believed to be brought on by stress.She had received multiple threats since speaking out against editorial policies at the SABC last year, while acts of intimidation were carried out against her. SABC camera woman Zama Mbalo (43) died on the same day following a short illness. eNCA