JOHANNESBURG Defending Currie Cup champions the Free State Cheetahs continued to stamp their authority early on in South Africa's premier domestic competition on Sunday to remain the only unbeaten team after two matches in the series.The Free State Cheetahs effective rounding off earned them a 30-17 victory against Western Province in Bloemfontein.Some action pics from today's match against the WP. Photo Credit: @johan_pretorius_photo pic.twitter.com/KR6LjQR0z9The first half was competitive despite the Capetonians dominating possession, with the hosts taking an 18-10 lead at the break thanks to two tries and two penalty goals to one of each by the visitors.They continued to make good use of their opportunities in the second half and added two more tries for their bonus point and a 30-10 lead. Springbok Sevens player Rosko Specman was instrumental in their skilful attacking display thanks to his bursts of pace and fantastic passing.Western Province hit back in the last quarter, but they were able to add only one more converted try for their efforts, which took their score to 17 points. #CurrieCup 2017 Bonus point win over Western Province and Cheetahs remains top of the log after Round 2.#RugbyUnited pic.twitter.com/DltuwjH9DmSummary of final results and scorers in round two:Free State Cheetahs 30-17 Western Province Free State Cheetahs Tries: William Small-Smith, Francois Venter, Rosko Specman, Makazole Mapimpi. Conversions: Niel Marais (2). Penalty Goals: Niel Marais (2).Western Province Tries: Justin Phillips, Stephan De Wit. Conversions: Kurt Coleman, Brandon Thomson. Penalty Goals: Kurt Coleman.Golden Lions 48-43 Tafel Lager GriquasGolden Lions Tries: Pieter Jansen, Jarryd Sage, Jacques Nel, Madosha Tambwe (2), Jaco Van der Walt, Aphiwe Dyantyi. Conversions: Shaun Reynolds (5). Penalty Goal: Shaun Reynolds.Tafel Lager Griquas: Tries: Christiaan Meyer (2), George Whitehead, Renier Botha, Enver Brandt, Ederies Arendse. Conversions: George Whitehead (5). Penalty Goal: George Whitehead.Sharks 29-0 Steval PumasSharks: Tries: Sbusiso Nkosi, Lukhanyo Am, Jeremy Ward, Kobus van Wyk. Conversions: Curwin Bosch (3). Penalty Goal: Curwin Bosch.African News Agency