LONDON – South African Kevin Anderson lost out to fellow big-serving Sam Querrey in five sets as the American won 5-7 7-6 6-3 6-7 6-3 in the fourth round of the men’s singles at Wimbledon on Monday. With both players boasting phenomenal serving power, it would always come down to mental strength and Querrey edged his opponent in that department in a gruelling five-set affair which lasted three hours and seven minutes. READ: Venus becomes oldest Wimbledon quarter-finalist in 23 years The 31-year-old Anderson at least can console himself with the R2.5m prize money he pocketed as he exited the hallowed grounds of Wimbledon. With the first set proceeding according to serve like clockwork between the two big-servers, a tiebreak seemed imminent.  With Anderson having held his serve for a 6-5 lead, he was presented with two break points by Querrey at 15-40 up. On the second time of asking, Anderson was able to convert to take the first set 7-5. In total, Anderson won 96 percent of points in the first set. Going on serve in the second, Anderson had two sets points in the 10th game. Querrey, however, dished up two aces to lift himself out of trouble as the pair headed towards a tiebreak. In the breaker, Anderson lost two points on his own serve to give his opponent a 4-1 lead. Inexplicably, Querrey proceeded to lose the next two points on his serve. But Anderson again lost his serve, and the American claimed the set 7-5 in the breaker. In the sixth game of the third set, the Anderson serve was finally broken as Querrey raced into a 4-2 lead. The shift in the momentum of the match was almost tangible as the previously infallible serve of Anderson looked to be wilting under the pressure. In the end Querrey comfortably served out the set 6-3, and in the process took a 2-1 lead in the match. READ:Wimbledon heavyweights braced for 'Manic Monday' With Anderson facing the distinct possibility of elimination and sporting a heavily strapped right ankle, he took Querrey to another tiebreak. In the breaker, Anderson adopted a far more aggressive approach and quickly assumed a 5-1 lead. The SA player was unable to serve it out as Querrey went ahead with five points in a row to bring up match point. Anderson was able to pull off a minor miracle as he saved the match point. Still, Anderson was once again down a match point at 8-7 down, but serving this time. An ace down the middle from Anderson made it 8-8. He missed his next first serve, but he unleashed a superb backhand down the line to make it 9-8. With the tiebreak moving along on serve, Anderson faced a third match point down at 10-9 before a strong serve out wide squared it up at 10-10. But an untimely double fault, gave Querrey a fourth match point – this time on his own serve.  The American, however, was unable to serve it out – losing both his serves. It left Anderson the chance to serve for the set, and he did so with a strong serve down the middle which Querrey struck straight into the net to end the marathon tiebreak 14-11 in favour of the South African. In the sixth game of the fifth set with the games going on serve up to that point, Anderson produced a dreadful service game including a double fault. Querrey won the game to love to assume a 4-2 lead. That was all the invitation Querrey needed, as Anderson looked beaten, as the US player served out the set 6-3 to win the titanic match. African News Agency