JOHANNESBURG - It's decision time for the South African Communist Party (SACP). The SACP will take stock and plot its course during its national congress this week. The party shares many of the policies proposed by the ANC. But it says policy isn't the problem. Instead, it's the people in power. And if that's not enough they've got their own take on what those people are saying. White monopoly capital has emerged as a buzzword in South African politics. But the SACP says race is just one part of the problem. It believes class is the fundamental issue and is taking aim at the Gupta family - describing them as a threat to the movement. READ: SACP joins voices dismissing Bell Pottinger apology "Monopoly capital remains our strategic enemy, but the most immediate threat facing our revolution are the parasitic networks encircling the state and our economy, at the centre of which is the Gupta family," said Blade Nzimande on the 29 May 2017. The SACP says the president should get the boot. But this conference could go even further. The party says its alliance with the ANC isn't working properly. Some members are now saying it should contest elections on its own. "In this respect, our congress unapologetically asserts the right of the SACP to contest state power in its own right," said Benson Ngqentsu, SACP Western Cape Secretary in early May this year. The SACP could change the game if it appears on the ballot. The party supports radical economic transformation, but it says all South Africans must benefit. READ: SACP claims assassination plot against Mapaila at Hani memorial It's admitted there's an urgent need for land reform, but it's called for caution, warning that it mustn't affect food production. The party's leader in the ANC-led government landed in hot water during the Fees Must Fall campaign over the fact that it does not support the idea of free teriary education and Nzimande infamously said "If the students don't accept this, we'll start our own movement,. "We'll call it 'Students Must Fall!'" The SACP stressed that poor students should not have to pay for university education,but it says the wealthy must foot their own bill. The SACP will review these policies and more over the next few days. Whatever happens, it's made one thing clear: when it comes to state power, the buck stops here. eNCA