JOHANNESBURG - Police Minister Fikile Mbalula is determined to crack down on crime at OR Tambo International Airport.Mbalula met with airport management and officials from State Security, Home Affairs and the Ekurhuleni Metro on Monday.Part of his plan is to regularly rotate police and security officers and to deployialised police units on the premises.He didn't mince his words during a walkabout at OR Tambo International, saying security there is inefficient. I mean the police have not acted, where criminality has taken place. Quite clearly, there has been collusion with the police at the heart of it... Not everything is supposed to be done by the police, but we can t abandon our responsibility as the police of protecting the national key point. Mbalula said corruption and collusion were largely to blame, as many people working at OR Tambo were not vetted. As Mbalula was making his way to the airport, a truck carrying valuable goods was hijacked soon after leaving OR Tambo.READ: OR Tambo airport wants to help find syndicatesOR Tambo Airport General Manager Bomgiwe Pityi said, This truck was then hijacked outside of the airport, outside of the gate that we refer to as super south... We are fortunate in that all units responded, including those that are appointed by airport, including the police, including Mayor Masina's team EMPD. In March, R20-million was stolen in a daring heist at OR Tambo. Suspects in that case, are facing trial.Mbalula said his team is also investigating the recent torching of government property. The offices that are burned down, its an inside job. It s not criminals who have taken their time to go there and burn down offices. It s an inside people who are working in the system for one reason or the other. Either its corruption or otherwise they want to destroy evidence for whatever reason. Talks among the security cluster would meanwhile continue on how to best to safegaurd one of Africa's busiest airports. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula or TAMBO Media Briefing Statement by eNCA.com on Scribd