JOHANNESBURG - KPMG says it refutes allegations that it helped the Gupta family use state funds to pay for a lavish wedding at Sun City.The Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors said on Saturday it would investigate KPMG's 2014 audit of Linkway Trading, a company allegedly involved in the wedding scandal.Leaked emails suggest laundered South African taxpayer money was used to pay for the luxurious nuptials.READ: #GuptaLeaks: The Dubai Laundromat - How millions from dairy paid for Sun City weddingKPMG says it is aware of the investigation and will cooperate fully with the industry watchdog. We were notified on Friday evening that the IRBA will investigate us under section 48 (1) (a) of the Auditing Profession Act, KPMG said in a statement. It is unusual for us to comment on such matters in the media, but since the IRBA chose to publish this fact we deem it appropriate to publicise our initial views. At this stage it is unclear to us what the basis of the investigation is as the notification referred in general terms to the media releases. The investigation appears to have been launched by the IRBA based only on the reports in the media. This is pertinent since we have no knowledge of the matters which allegedly, per these media reports, appear to have their roots in the Free State dairy project. We will cooperate fully with the IRBA in its investigation and give a detailed account of our actions, which we restate, were in accordance with professional and ethical standards. Consistent with our values, we have acted with integrity in our dealings with the Oakbay Group. READ: KPMG to be investigated over Gupta wedding auditKPMG insists its independence was not affected by senior partners attending the controversial 2013 wedding and it stands by its audit of Linkway Trading. The wedding took place in 2013 and attendance by some of our partners was approved at that time by our risk management team and executive Committee. KPMG said. The accommodation and travel costs were borne by KPMG. We are satisfied that our independence was not impaired at any stage. KPMG resigned as auditors and advisers of the Gupta-owned Oakbay Group entities in April 2016.The auditing firm says their last sign-off as auditors was in respect of the February 2015 year-end. eNCA