*Editor's Note: This evening's briefings are now complete. You can watch a recording above. The sessions will continue tomorrow. If you have trouble viewing the video above, click HERE.JOHANNESBURG - Plenaries have met, policy documents been poured over and ideas thrashed out.The ANC is holding a series of media briefings on each Commission Report Back. The briefings will be addressed by the Chairpersons of each Commission.[WATCH] ANC NEC member, Joel Netshitenzhe, on debates about "monopoly capital" during the #ANCNPC. Courtesy DStv 403 pic.twitter.com/xWcoIYWi8C#ANCNPC: Netshitenzhe says 9 commissions decided monopoly capital cannot be characterised as white as it occurs globally. Courtesy DStv 403 pic.twitter.com/1MwkVf3RWfFour Commissions reported back on Tuesday. These were Strategy and Tactics, Organisational Renewal, Peace & Stability and International Relations.The remainder of the commissions will be finalized on Wednesday morning.ANC Policy Documents:1. Strategy and Tactics -ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document Strategy and Tactics by eNCA.com on Scribd2. Organisational Renewal -ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document Organisational Renewal by eNCA.com on Scribd3. Communications -ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document Communications by eNCA.com on Scribd4. Economic Transformation -ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document Economic Transformation by eNCA.com on Scribd5. Education, Health, Science and Technology -ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document Education, Health, Science and Technology by eNCA.com on Scribd6. Legislature and Governance -ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document Legislature and Governance by eNCA.com on Scribd7. Social Transformation -ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document Social Transformation by eNCA.com on Scribd8. Peace and Stability -ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document Peace and Stability by eNCA.com on Scribd9. International Relations - ANC National Policy Conference 2017 Discussion Document: International Relations by eNCA.com on ScribdeNCA