 JOHANNESBURG It appears the ANC s call on National Policy Conference delegates to refrain from singing factional songs has fallen on deaf ears.Deep divisions continued to show as the elective conference draws nearer. But policies are being debated that are meant to insulate the party from factional fighting before the December conference.READ: ANC delegates don't sing from same songbookANC Secretary General Gwede Mantashe stressed the conference was intended for developing policy, not for discussing electing leadership. But just how the party intends to reign in delegates expressing their choice of leader remains to be seen.ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said the party had foreseen that factional singing would occur, hence it had made a call to delegates to refrain from it.@ANCKZN is running de show nd no one can even try to discipline them,thy r singing factional songs like as usual #ANCNPC #ANCPolicy"We knew there may be those elements, given the fact the ground was fertile enough for ill-discipline --- we'll continue to make that call that it s not good for the African National Congress."The party was at pains to point out that such troubles were necessary for an organisation that was trying to rebuild itself.ANC NEC member Fikile Mbalula said the ANC has the power to change the fact that people are factional. That is why we are making firm proposals in organisational design about how we must respond to those particular challenges. This moved me!! I felt goosebumps all over my body! #ANCNPC pic.twitter.com/iU9ybN4rl4On the announcement that Parliament has shifted the date of the Motion Of No Confidence in President Jacob Zuma to 8 August, Mbalula was adamant that even with a secret ballot, Zuma was safe. National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete has said she is yet to decide whether MPs will vote through a secret ballot. Not yet. I'm still waiting to hear the views of different political parties. I wrote to them and I just want to hear their views so that I can also take them into consideration as I make the final decision, Mbete said. eNCA