CAPE TOWN Four people were arrested on Monday in connection with the violent Imizamo Yethu protests in Hout Bay.The residents, who began protesting on Saturday, claimed they were promised formal housing by Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille, following a devastating fire in March, which left thousands of residents displaced.They said were tired of waiting.The ANC in the Western Cape blamed the DA-run Western Cape government for failing to look after victims of fires in the informal settlement. Provincial ANC secretary Faiez Jacobs said residents were demanding action, but were being ignored.On Monday, a group of Imizamo Yethu residents went on the rampage, burning vehicles, blocking roads and damaging property, the City of Cape Town said. Imizamo Yethu residents are getting restless waiting on the mayor. Talks that she turned around. #Houtbayprotest pic.twitter.com/9XxbghoFcqJacobs said those who had no shelter were getting sick in the cold, wet weather.He claimed the DA was prioritising its wealthy supporters in Plettenberg Bay and Knysna.City of Cape Town mayoral committee member for safety and security, JP Smith, said many of the protests were criminal.GALLERY: Hout Bay protests turn violent The situation in Hout Bay has become very serious and it is clear it s no longer a matter of community protest but has now entered the realm of sheer criminality. Rioters have moved into side streets and smashed cars and windows. An attack on the Kronendal Old Age Home was narrowly averted, said Smith. The City s law enforcement and disaster management mobile units, which were used as kitchens for the victims of the fire on the sports field has been completely destroyed. Chaos breaking again in Imizamo Yethu #Houtbayprotest Shots fired pic.twitter.com/sOD8QX3fp3He said the City had deployed every available resource from traffic, law enforcement, and metro police officers to the scene, while police had deployed the provincial Public Order Policing unit to Hout Bay. The City calls on the South African Police to please ensure that the video footage that has been collected of protesters engaging in public violence and damaging state and private property is used to effect arrests and to ensure that such individuals are prosecuted, said Smith.WATCH: Imizamo Yethu informal settlement protests continue Their behaviour is simply unacceptable and cannot be tolerated in a democratic dispensation. Earlier, police opened fire with rubber bullets to try and disperse the protesters. Meanwhile, police spokesman Andre Traut said the Public Order Policing unit members would be joined by their colleagues from the Stabilisation Unit and Visible Policing to maintain law and order and to police the situation effectively .Traut urged residents to steer clear of the protest action. Our deployments will remain in the area until we are satisfied that the threat to the area has been alleviated. We urge the community to exercise caution in the close proximity of the group of protesters, who are estimated at 100 at this time. - Additional reporting by African News Agency (ANA)eNCA