CAPE TOWN - Graca Machel says she’s working with other human rights advocates and elder statesmen in The Elders grouping to uphold Madiba's legacy. She was speaking at the Grand Parade, Cape Town, at the welcoming ceremony for the Elders event at the Cape Town International Conference Centre (CTICC). "When Madiba passed on we made pledges to say we are going to honour your life and we wanted to take up the torch and build a society which is fair and equal, and from now to next year elders are launching a campaign we call Walking, in honour of the long walk to freedom which is really the flag Madiba has left for us,” said Machel. A number of elders will walk from the Grand Parade to the conference centre, to kick off their latest campaign 'Walk Together', "which aims to show solidarity with those who are most downtrodden and vulnerable in today’s world," according to their media release. The event commemorates the tenth anniversary of their founding, and a documentary film featuring "never-before seen footage of Nelson Mandela, President Carter and Richard Branson meeting in 2007 to set the agenda of their work" will be shown at the CTICC. READ: The Elders continue Madiba's long walk to freedom "The documentary celebrates their work across the world, providing insight into the delicate negotiations that have gone on to address conflicts and geopolitical tensions in Iran, the Korean Peninsula, Cyprus and Israel/Palestine, and the group’s public advocacy on issues such as climate change, child marriage, equality for girls and women, and refugees and migration," the media release noted. The Elders are a group of  "independent leaders using their collective experience and influence for peace, justice and human rights worldwide. The group was founded by Nelson Mandela in 2007. The Elders are Kofi Annan (Chair), Gro Harlem Brundtland (Deputy Chair), Martti Ahtisaari, Ban Ki-moon, Lakhdar Brahimi,  Hina Jilani, Ricardo Lagos, Graça Machel, Mary Robinson and Ernesto Zedillo. Ela Bhatt, Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Jimmy Carter and Desmond Tutu are Elders Emeritus. eNCA