JOHANNESBURG The songs sung by various groups of ANC delegates were yet another indication of the divisions within the party.On Friday, party members used music to show how they felt about the issues that would be discussed at the party s National Policy Conference (NPC), taking place in Nasrec.Song and dance were an integral part of ANC events, even as the organisation morphed from a liberation movement to a governing party.Some delegates sang songs in praise of the party and its leader President Jacob Zuma, while others expressed a desire for a change in leadership.One group of attendees sang ANC kuzolawul wena, which means ANC you will rule. ANC will rule - #ANCNPC delegates sing. #ANCPolicy17 pic.twitter.com/LhAjptJWEQThe ANC had been besieged by disunity and factional battles, reflected by the ANC's North West delegation which sang Silamulel Tambo meaning Intervene Tambo. North West delegates #ANCNPC pic.twitter.com/qJNHKiin0oDelegates from the Eastern Cape performed Usheshe washo, Zinsiwa zilelekule dawo. EC delegation. #ANCNPC pic.twitter.com/fJI6orY2nL Minister Lindiwe Zulu sings with EC delegation. #ANCNPC pic.twitter.com/q1YOj9nhVI But many sang songs with a very different tone, expressing a wish to see a different approach in leadership ahead of the party's December elective conference. Some delegates calling for change. Clear factions before NPC. #ANCNPC pic.twitter.com/GeaOcGT928 The song Shona Malanga sizodibana ngebhazuka ehlathini translated into "We will meet in the bush with a bazooka." Singing and dancing continues at #ANCNPC #ANCPolicy17 pic.twitter.com/rvaI1HYEPrAnother group sang Ubani ozofakaza ngawe translated into Who will testify about you. ANC leaders sing and dance. #ANCNPC #ANCPolicy17 pic.twitter.com/TUZytJoIjf Some ANC members indicated their frustration at having political freedom but not being in control of the economy.Just before proceedings got underway, a group belted out Asiphelelanga, kushoda umnotho, translated into We aren't satisfied, we need economic liberation. Asiphelelanga, kushoda umnotho - #ANCNCP delegates sing. #ANCPolicy17 pic.twitter.com/zm5DVm53cL eNCA