JOHANNESBURG – Paseka Motsoeneng, known as Pastor Mboro, is threatening to sue the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities. The CRL Rights Commission released a report on Tuesday, asking churches to reveal their annual finances. The controversial cleric says his church is not accountable to them. He now plans to raise money to support his legal campaign. READ: Pastor Mboro buys himself BMW worth R2m For some time now, the CRL Commission has been concerned about donations to churches, including the Incredible Happenings Ministry. “It cannot be that you can remain unaccountable. The God that anointed you cannot then say it is okay for you not to be able to tell us what you did with the money you collected from the congregants,” said chairperson of the CRL, Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva. Controversial Pastor Mboro says he's not accountable to the commission. “You know what's funny, the Bible gives us principles. Every organisation has its rules. You can’t just open up your financials to everybody. Who will pay my bills? The Bible says he who preaches the gospel must live out of the gospel.” Pastor Mboro called on his congregants to raise money to support his court bid against the commission. If he fails, he’s threatened to close down his ministry. WATCH: Pastor Mboro shares his healing methods “They will remember and say that ‘Yah if Mboro… I want to show if I’m not there what happens. If in nine weeks nobody comes and supports and makes partnerships with me I will close down everything.” Some of his congregants have also warned the CRL Commission to stop insulting the man they call Prophet Mboro. “For her to be saying that about the prophet, say nothing bad about my anointed, because she is calling a curse for herself because Ntate Motsoeneng is a man of God that I can promise you,” said one congregant. Mboro says he plans to take the commission to court for defamation. His followers are vowing to support him during these difficult times for the church. eNCA