NELSPRUIT The Mpumalanga government said on Friday it had contained the spread of malaria in the province.Malaria had claimed 21 lives in the Bushbuckridge and Thaba Chwewu areas between April and June, acting director of communicable diseases in the province Mandla Zwane said.Read: Malaria: The warning signs The outbreak is over and people should not fear this province, said Zwane.He said a total of 1,790 cases of malaria were confirmed in the whole province between April and June. He attributed the outbreak to, among other things, a lot of rain and humidity experienced by the province early this year. The @JackWills bracelet is ethically handmade in South Africa and helps to #EndMalaria https://t.co/WTf7CZHB7I pic.twitter.com/wj3lZuMKkPZwane said people normally contracted malaria after they were bitten by Anopheles mosquitoes. Bushbuckride has 754 cases of malaria and Thaba Chwewu 55. We had good rain in April and it made breeding of mosquitoes possible. A total of 17 people died in Bushbuckridge, three others died at hospitals in other areas after they were transferred from Bushbuckridge, and one person died in Thaba Chweu. U.S. malaria donations saved almost 2 million African children https://t.co/jL3JswWJYtThere are mosquitos that can bite you but do not transmit malaria. The recorded cases of malaria include other areas such as Nkangala Nkomazi and Mbombela. Zwane insisted that the provincial department of health was in full control of the disease and was spreading awareness in communities of the symptoms of malaria and offering them preventative measures against the disease.READ: Malaria in Limpopo: Death toll and symptoms We visited affected households and sprayed their homes with chemicals. Malaria does not have specific symptoms and people infected with it develop flu-like symptoms such as fever, headaches and sweating. Our teams also identified areas of concern such as the breeding sites for mosquitos that cause malaria." Shakaira, 2, is treated for #malaria at a UNICEF-supported clinic in rural Malawi https://t.co/ODWYu6b6CD #foreverychild, health pic.twitter.com/DNS43dcVdy"We made sure that all infected people were treated accordingly. There were people who confused malaria symptoms with those of flu, added Zwane, urging them to go to a hospital for a check-up as soon as they developed flu-like symptoms.The cases of malaria and the number of deaths were higher this year compared to those of last year. African News Agency