BANGUI, Central African Republic Lionel Fotot once watched a crowd kill a six-year-old Muslim boy with a machete. He could not shake the memories of the brutalities he witnessed as Central African Republic (CAR) collapsed into sectarian violence.So the young hip hop artist was heartened when his One Force group, comprising Christians and Muslims, performed to a packed crowd at the largest venue in the capital, the 20,000-seat Barthelemy Boganda Stadium. Our music is like a medicine that can heal the country, Fotot said. Before they disarm their weapons, the youth have to disarm their hearts. CAR had faced interreligious and intercommoned fighting since 2013, when predominantly Muslim Seleka rebels seized power in the capital, Bangui. Anti-balaka militias, mostly Christians, fought back, resulting in thousands of people killed and hundreds of thousands displaced.The situation worsened in recent months, with more than 300 people killed and 100,000 people displaced since mid-May after attacks in the impoverished country s south-east and centre.Music was one approach in trying to pull the nation together again.Twenty young rappers from Central African Republic recently attended a jam session and cultural exchange with visiting Congolese-American rapper and academic Omekongo Dibinga. Organised by the US Embassy and UN peacekeeping forces in the country, the event was meant to try to inspire them and to give them hope, said UN spokesman Herve Verhoosel.READ: C. Africa sapped by decades of strife and misrule Sometimes people here lack confidence in themselves and their future, because all that they have known since they were born has been conflict, people dying, Verhoosel said.One of the young rappers at the event was Marlon Bisseni, who practised every day at home or with members of his rap group Enigmatique. The 21-year-old also studied human resources at a local university, knowing he needed a way to survive in a country where most people made less than a dollar a day. I love hip hop. Without music, I am nothing, said Bisseni, also known as Rym Thug. The country s growing community of hip hop artists looked toward a brighter future. We say, No. Stop. We don t need war,' said 23-year-old artist Felix Ngobo. We say, It doesn t matter if you re Christian or Muslim. We are all the same. Ngobo performed as Felika Joker in his LK City group, with songs called We need peace and Reconciliation Street. Dibinga, the visiting rapper and academic at American University, advised the young rappers in Bangui to stay true to their voice and draw on their own experiences instead of emulating US artists. Art is community, Dibinga said. Whether you re Muslim or Christian, whether you re whatever you have more things in common than things that are different. That s how we start to build. And when people are picking up the microphone, they re not picking up the guns. African News Agency