JOHANNESBURG - This week has seen a number of newsmakers causing a stir and getting people talking. 1. Black First Land First takes on journalists Andile Mngxitama, Black First Land First leader, denies that BLF caused chaos at an amaBhungane media discussion (also called a "town hall" gathering) on Thursday night. This is despite proof to the contrary. Mngxitama says he has laid charges after he was allegedly pushed. The disruption was in clear breach of a court interdict barring BLF members from intimidating journalists. 2. Mandela book withdrawn The Nelson Mandela Foundation has welcomed the withdrawal of the book, ‘Mandela’s Last Years’, from circulation. The foundation says while it welcomes diverse voices on the struggle icon's life, Dr Vejay Ramlakan’s book crossed the line and failed to meet legal and ethical requirements. The late statesman’s wife, Graça Machel,  threatened to sue over the book, while both his ex-wife Winnie Madikizela-Mandela and the executors of his estate denied giving permission for it to be published. 3. Racism at Klipspruit The school governing body (SGB) of Klipspruit West Secondary School in Soweto was dissolved on Wednesday, following protests over the appointment of a black principal. Learning and teaching were disrupted earlier this week as parents demanded a coloured principal. The neighbourhood is ravaged by drug abuse and high levels of unemployment. 4. Eskom saga continues READ - Eskom's lies, lies, and more lies Eskom chief financial officer Anoj Singh has been placed on special leave  pending the outcome of a forensic investigation. Reports suggest the move was sparked by the Development Bank of Southern Africa's alleged threat to recall a R15-billion loan to the power utility. 5. Timol inquest confirms the worst about apartheid-government tactics It was a week of chilling testimony at the inquest into the death of anti-apartheid activist Ahmed Timol as the circumstances around the anti-apartheid activist’s death took centre state. When the activist died in police custody in 1971 the police said it was suicide. His family has always believed he was murdered and testimony now suggests they might be right. Aeronautical engineer Thivash Moodley on Friday contradicted police evidence that Timol fell, rather than was pushed, from a window at John Vorster Square. eNCA