JOHANNESBURG - As the ANC s Policy Conference reaches its end, delegates appear to be at each other s throats over white monopoly capital and land expropriation without compensation. This while some delegates continue to call for President Jacob Zuma to step down. The predicted divisions are clear.Reports of a verbal confrontation between senior ANC leader Derek Hanekom and the ANC Youth League, have been confirmed by delegates who were in the closed doors sessions. Hanekom strongly opposed a suggestion of land expropriation without compensation, allegedly saying its proponents are talking nonsense.The youth league has responded. We think anyone who holds the view that if somebody differs with you then he speaks nonsense, that s too shallow," Kwazi Mshengu, KZN ANCYL Chairperson said on Tuesday afternoon. "As the youth league delegation we refuse to really stoop to that level. It was concerning, but we thought that we need to forge ahead with our policy position and rationalize what we want to achieve as the ANC youth league. READ: ANC MPs will toe the line, says MbeteMeanwhile, speaking to eNCA on the sidelines of the conference, a member of the ANC s integrity commission confirmed that it had asked President Jacob Zuma to step down.Party veteran Sindiso Mfenyana says the commission s delegation, is pushing for the ethics structure to be made a constitutional body of the party to give it more clout. We ended up saying so far from what we hear, we think that it will be a good thing if he step aside for the sake of the organisation," Mfenyana said. "He had a different view we respected that. We shall try and follow what the SG has said. He said the removal of president will not change things. Mfenyana also compared President Zuma to former ANC President Oliver Tambo."I think president Tambo would have handled the situation differently from the current president," he told eNCA's Thulasizwe Simelane. "Certainly, I am sure he would not have reached a stage where the Constitutional Court would find him having breached his oath of office."The various commissions of the policy conference are now reporting back to the party.For now the new policy to guide the ANC are merely proposals.They ll be endorsed, amended or rejected at the party s National Conference in December.eNCA