AUSTRALIA - Pippa Middleton and new husband, James Matthews, were spotted strolling hand-in-hand whilst enjoying their honeymoon in Sydney on Wednesday. EXCLUSIVE: Pippa Middleton shows off her bikini bod while on honeymoon with James Matthews. See the pics! https://t.co/JWO7A0u7tt pic.twitter.com/2GTwYb1vnoThe glamorous pair tied the knot this month at an English country church in a lavish and star-studded wedding, with the bride's sister Kate and husband Prince William attending. There's a typical wedding budget and then there's Pippa Middleton and James Matthew's wedding budget: https://t.co/yuHdBhoSao pic.twitter.com/jIy9U7hkmx Middleton, wearing a knee-length black and white stripy dress and black cardigan, and her financier husband gamely waved to passers-by as they took in the sights before boarding a water taxi, Channel Seven footage showed. New! Pippa Middleton and James Matthews are pictured enjoying their honeymoon now in Sydney, Australia! pic.twitter.com/ftvFzGe5o1 "They looked very much in love and kept giving each other loving glances even whilst talking to friends," an onlooker told news.com.au.The pair earlier went for a long run at sunrise."She looked like such a pro in her active wear," Anna Frilingos, who saw the couple on their jog, told the Sydney Morning Herald."She was impressively keeping up with her husband and trainer, or guard dude. They seemed like they were loving running across the (Harbour) bridge and looking around."Middleton, 33, made headlines around the world in a figure-hugging bridesmaid's dress at William and Kate's wedding in 2011. At Pippa Middleton's wedding, Duchess Kate returns the favor by holding sister's train https://t.co/TpHiQDSgpX pic.twitter.com/e1ntfrWXC8 The spotlight was on her again at St Mark's Church in Englefield, a quiet rural village west of London near the Middleton family home on May 20.As well as Kate and William, their two children Prince George and Princess Charlotte were among eight young page boys and bridesmaids. Relive Pippa Middleton's spectacular wedding in photos: https://t.co/feOZdWLMVD Prince Harry was also there, but there was no sign at the church of his girlfriend Meghan Markle, a US actress.AFP