JOHANNESBURG - The final lap in the Absa Premiership title race has entered home stretch with an intriguing coming week set to decide who wins the ultimate prize among the three contenders.Bidvest Wits strengthened their bid for the title with a narrow 1-0 win over Orlando Pirates on Thursday, the same night defending champions Mamelodi Sundowns lost ground when they were amazingly held to a 2-2 by Platinum Stars at home.Wits lead the standing with 54 points, three more than Sundowns, on 51. Dark horses, Cape Town City lie in between with 52 points.READ: Sundowns lose key points in draw with DikwenaThe Students have been in fine form this season, brushing aside the league s powerhouses to lead the pack for most part of their campaign and are well on course to winning their first ever league title. However, Cape Town City are well within reach of causing the greatest upset in the premiership title race should their nemeses drop points in their remaining fixtures.Credit must be given to Sundowns who proved their mettle after having to play catch up to the rest of the clubs following their success in the CAF Champions League last year. The Brazilians climbed their way to pole position for the first time this season but this was short-lived after stumbling against Bidvest Wits in a thrilling top of the table clash last week.This coming weekend games might go a long way in deciding where the league title goes.READ: Wits beat Sundowns to go top of PremiershipWhilst Cape Town City beat struggling Free State Stars on Friday (5 May 2017), it is Sunday s two games that are set to make things interesting in the domestic league.Leaders Wits welcome fast improving Maritzburg United in which Coach Gavin Hunt has warned his charges of a possible banana skid while Sundowns travel to Orlando Stadium for what might be a tricky encounter against the wounded Pirates.Supersport United and Kazier Chiefs blew their chances for the title after their recent string of poor results. Both clubs earned unfavourable results in their last two encounters which saw them drop vital points in the heated race.READ: City back in the title hunt with 1-0 win over StarsMoving further down to the foot of the table, Highlands Park, Baroka FC, Free State Stars and Chippa United are all in danger of the looming dagger. Highlands Park are rooted at the bottom of the log with 22 points, just one point behind Baroka who are tied on 23 points with Free State Stars.Chippa United will be going for the kill when they welcome Ajax Cape Town on Sunday in a bid to move further away from the drop. They currently have 24 points which still puts them in danger of relegation.Top Three Remaining Fixtures:Bidvest Wits:vs. Polokwane City (H) vs. Kazier Chiefs (A)Mamelodi Sundowns:vs. Baroka FC (H) vs. Maritzburg United (H) vs. Highlands Park (A)Cape Town Cityvs. Supersport United (A) vs. Golden Arrows (H) vs. Polokwane City (A)African News Agency