JOHANNESBURG South African decathlete Fredriech Pretorius will be hoping to break new ground in his career on Saturday when he competes in Hypo Decathlon Meeting in Gotzis, Austria.The Tuks-athlete had his big breakthrough earlier this season when at the Gauteng North Championships he at long last managed to amass 8 002 points in a competition. Willem Coertzen who holds the South African record having scored 8 398 points in Gotzis is the only other South African decathlete to ever go past the magical 8000 points barrier.Pretorius has sights set on qualifying for the World Championships in London. According to the IAAF standards, the Tuks-athlete needs to score 8 100 points which he sees as doable.His confidence sprouts from having so far this season being able to set new personal bests in nine of the ten events. Pretorius ascribes his success to being injury-free and to have started to do some serious gym training. I can already feel the difference and I am looking forward to seeing what will happen if I can keep at it. The fact that I lost nearly six kilograms so far this year has also helped me perform at a higher level, said Pretorius. I have worked it out, I don t need to set a lot of new personal bests to score 8 100 points. I just need to be consistent over the two days. I think the key for me will be to try and improve my performance in the discus, shot put or javelin. At the Gauteng North Championships I threw 41.26 metres in the discus. Later on in another competition, I threw 43 metres. If over the weekend I again can manage to throw 43 metres that alone will be worth an extra 98 points. Pretorius is also confident of scoring an extra valuable few points in the 400 metres. I know I am capable of running a faster time than 49.98s. The 1 500 metres is the only event in which Pretorius has not yet this season set a new personal best. According to him, it is because there had been no real opportunity yet to do so. I only really race the 1 500 metres at the Gauteng North Championships but it is not easy setting a best time at altitude. This I can promise if I need to race the 1 500 metres flat out on Sunday to get to 8 100 points that is exactly what I will do even, if it means that I will be dying over the last 100 metres, said Pretorius who in 2014 at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow managed to win the 1 500 metres to help him finish seventh overall in the decathlon. Fredriech Pretorius of South Africa takes the second 100m heat in the decathlon #AfricanChamps pic.twitter.com/fnqQCpFkOE Since his Commonwealth success, Pretorius suffered one setback after another. Broken ribs, a fractured coccyx, bruised foot ligaments and undergoing two elbow operations were just a few things the Tuks-athlete had to overcome before being able to score 8000 points in a decathlon.African News Agency