JOHANNESBURG - Saray Khumalo is on the brink of history. The climber is hoping to become the first black African woman to summit Mount Everest.Khumalo came within 100 metres of the peak yesterday, but heavy winds forced her to turn back.Saray Khumalo in the Himalayas. Khumalo has temporarily halted her attempt to summit Mount Everest. The Johannesburg business executive was heading down the mountain on Tuesday. She s likely to stop at Camp 2, which is more than 2,000 metres below the summit. Her team will then face a choice return to base camp, or push ahead with another summit bid.Click here to view an animation of the typical summit route on the south side of Mount Everest.Lee den Hond was the last South African woman to climb Everest, reaching the summit in 2013. She says it was a brutal experience, which she ll never forget. I felt completely out of control, said den Hond. The human body is not supposed to be existing at that altitude."Essentially, the organs shut down. Your internal body is starting to die. WATCH: Lee den Hond summits Mount Everest in 2013.Khumalo has already tried to climb Everest twice. Both trips ended in tragedy an avalanche rocked the mountain in 2014, while an earthquake hit Nepal a year later.She s now facing another challenge, with the weather presenting a formidable challenge.Mountaineer Alex Harris is at base camp on the Tibetan side of the mountain. He said the winds were extremely powerful on Tuesday morning. I would ve been surprised if anyone reached the top, said Harris. The wind was really strong at the start of the day. WATCH: Mountaineer Alex Harris speaks to eNCA about conditions on Mount Everest.Ten people have died on Everest since the start of the climbing season in late April.Khumalo may not have reached the summit yet, but she s lived to fight another day. Den Hond said she s a role model for girls across the continent.Saray Khumalo climbing an icefall on Mount Everest in 2015. She s an absolute hero. I mean, she s doing this for the third time, said den Hond. It shows women that anything is possible. If you truly believe it, you will reach your goals. eNCA