JOHANNESBURG The brother of Eskom employee Thembisile Yende, whose body was found at the Springs substation in Ekurhuleni, said on Wednesday morning that the family would be holding a picket outside the substation in the hopes that their questions to the utility would be answered.Her body was discovered at an Eskom substation in Springs after she was reported missing two weeks ago.Reports say the 30-year-old Eskom employee was last seen when she went to her workplace in the evening on May 17. The picket will be from 09:30 this morning at the substation, we are trying to get answers as a family, the deceased s brother, Mboneni Zakhele Yende said. Why was she found 13 days later? A search was done with k9 dogs after she went missing and she was not found but 13 days later she is found. READ: Police must prioritise Eskom employee's death, urges NumsaYende said that in order for the family to find closure, they needed to understand what happened to his sister. We are not fighting Eskom, it s going to peaceful. He said family members went to the police station to report her missing after she did not return home and was not answering her phone. There are stories that surveillance was not working, then there s another that she was seen walking-in in the morning so those are the things we need to find out, Yende said. What was done when they heard that she was missing and what procedures were followed when they found out that their surveillance was not working? Please Eskom give us the answers we need. WATCH: Lynne Brown addresses Parliament on EskomThe South African Police Service is investigating the matter and a post-mortem will be conducted to determine the cause and time of death.On Tuesday police spokesperson Sergeant Harry Manaka said the Eskom employee s body was found with her head covered in a black plastic bag.It was only after other Eskom employees noticed a bad smell from the corridors of the substation, where she worked, that her body was found. African News Agency