CAPE TOWN The Sharks exploited their scoring opportunities to run out deserving 22-10 winners over the hapless Stormers in the Super Rugby coastal derby at Growthpoint Kings Park, Durban, on Saturday evening.The Sharks held a commanding 15-0 lead at the halftime break after scoring two unanswered tries. In the end, the Sharks outscored the visiting Stormers 3-1 in the try count thanks in the main to their stout defence in the face of mostly predictable attacking patterns.The inclement weather made for greasy conditions at the kick-off and in the opening minutes, both teams showed great intent.A 5th-minute scrum penalty against the Stormers gave the Sharks a chance to open the scoring in the game as flyhalf Garth April was on target with a penalty (3-0).The Sharks pack seemed to have the upper hand in the tight exchanges and were able to take the ball through the phases. After a number of pick-and-go drives upfield saw the Sharks midfielder Johan Deysel crossed the whitewash for the opening try. April s conversion attempt went awry (8-0).The Stormers managed to secure a fair of possession but a combination of handling mistakes and poor option-taking saw them come away empty-handed after they had mounted a few penetrative attacks. There were a few instances of poor tactical kicks which allowed the Sharks defence to deal with threats close to the tryline.Both teams launched several attacks out on the flanks but the Sharks defence out wide, in particular, was impressive.Around the half-hour mark, the Stormers enjoyed two 5m line-outs in quick succession but the Sharks kept their defensive lines intact.A possible Sharks try went a begging when leftwing S busiso Nkosi opted to kick ahead instead of gathering the ball, some six metres out, as the Stormers cover defence were found wanting in the 35th minute. REPORT: The Cell C Sharks defeated the Stormers 22-10 #SHAvSTO #OurSharks https://t.co/qSFy5OL8V8 pic.twitter.com/MNKX3BtARJ However, two minutes later the Sharks power upfront took its toll as lock Stephan Lewies sneaked the ball over the whitewash from the bottom of a loose scrum, almost on the Stormers tryline. This time April converted (15-0).Right on halftime, the Stormers squandered yet another chance to crack the opposition defence from a 5m line-out. The Stormers pulled off a line-out variation but the ploy was well read by Sharks flank Jean-Luc du Preez who made a try-saving turn-over virtually on his own tryline.The Stormers were off to a lively start when second-half play commenced and they drew a small measure of reward when fullback SP Marais goaled a penalty three minutes into the half (15-3). Sbu Nkosi, tonight's man of the match! #SHAvSTO #OurSharks pic.twitter.com/HaFUYVgwQV It was all Stormers for a subsequent 10-minute passage of play and a 12-phase attack inside the Sharks 22m territory eventually breached the defence when Marais sneaked in for his side s first try, which he converted to reduce the deficit to five points (15-10).Just when the Stormers were looking to build on their ascendency they suffered a huge setback when their defence suffered a lapse of concentration as Nkosi streaked past two opponents from the back of the line-out to run in for the Sharks third try. April s conversion pushed the Sharks lead out to 22-10.The Stormers responded with great intent as they managed to pin the Sharks down in their own 22m area over a six-minute spell. However, the Stormers predictable playing patterns allowed the stout Sharks defence to live a charmed life as they thwarted three scoring attempts in quick succession around the 70th-minute mark.As it turned out, the Stormers were never allowed back into the game as the Sharks held out for a deserving win on the back of an excellent first-half performance and stout defence in the second half.Scorers, Sharks 22 (15): Tries: Johan Deysel, Stephan Lewies, S busiso Nkosi Conversions: Garth April (2). Penalty: April Stormers 10 (0): Try: SP Marais. Conversion: Marais. Penalty: Marais.African News Agency