PRETORIA - Mamelodi Sundowns will be banking on their home ground advantage to bag the full three points against Maritzburg United in the Absa Premiership on Wednesday night at the Lucas Moripe Stadium in Atteridgeville.Looking at their previous three league matches, the Brazilians are not at their best, but they will hope to rectify their errors against The Team of Choice.Although they occupy the second spot on the log table with 55 points from 28 matches (two points behind league leaders Bidvest Wits), they are not winning their matches and cannot afford to lose if they hope to defend their Premiership crown.READ: Wits looking to make history by winning League titleThe Brazilians are winless in two matches in all competitions since claiming a win over Orlando Pirates nearly two weeks ago.It's time to get behind the Brazilians! #Sundowns pic.twitter.com/Ck2j2hbtesCoach Pitso Mosimane was left to rue their lack of venom when they drew 0-0 against Ethiopia s St George in the Champions League last Saturday as well.In their most recent league match Sundowns drew 2-2 against relegation-threatened Baroka FC at the same venue last Wednesday. It s a must-win against Martizburg. If we don t win that one, then we must forget defending the league title, says Mosimane. When you don t win you hope other people don t win, but you have to win and never mind what other people do, you must win. We must beat Maritzburg. If you want to win the league, you must win against Maritzburg United and that s it. Maybe we will be sharper and quicker than in our last few games.Looking at the Team of Choice, United will be gunning to consolidate their top eight spot.United are on the verge of booking a top eight spot as they remain seventh with 36 points, only a point above No 8 (Ajax Cape Town) and No 9 (Golden Arrows) on the table.READ: Sundowns lose key points in draw with DikwenaIn their previous two league games, United have not been convincing as they lost to the Clever Boys and drew against Platinum Stars.Fadlu Davids men frustrated Sundowns at home in the first round to retain a point and heading to this tie, they will be hoping to claim the maximum spoils. We are going into the game against Sundowns thinking about our own needs and making the top eight, not anyone else, says Davids. Sundowns is a fantastic team with great coaches and impressive playing styles. At the moment the league title is in Wits hands but it is wide open. Sundowns are capable of winning all their games and they will want to beat us. We also have to keep winning to make sure we stay in the top eight and that is our goal. We will not be a walkover for Sundowns. African News Agency