JOHANNESBURG ANC Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe has denied allegations that he had set President Jacob Zuma up for ambush on Worker's Day.The president suffered embarrassment when he was prevented from speaking at Cosatu's main rally in Bloemfontein.#ANCSG @GwedeMantashe1 addressing members of the media on the recent #MayDay Rallies #WorkersDay pic.twitter.com/bXbNgoAPImMost of the crowd affiliated to Cosatu booed and heckled Zuma, while ANC members who came to support the president cheered him on.Mantashe rejected suggestions that the jeering was coordinated attacks on some ANC leaders.Mantashe rejects suggestion the booing was coordinated to ensure that some ANC leaders were booed, while others were not. #ANCMayDaySeveral main unions within the federation rejected calls for Zuma to address the rally.In recent weeks Cosatu called on the president to step down.Mantashe; 'Let me venture to suggest the red 100% Zuma T-shirts contributed to the tensions at Cosatu #MayDay' #ANCMaydayWATCH: Mkhize speaks on current state of ANCMantashe has dismissed suggestions that deploying Zuma to Bloemfontein was setting him up for ambush. The tradition we have established, ANC president goes where the Cosatu president goes, said Mantashe.Mantashe says when it comes to deployments, the ANC President will go where the Cosatu President will be on May Day. #ANCMayDay [ANC] deputy president goes where first deputy president of Cosatu goes.[ANC] national chairperson goes with the second deputy president of Cosatu goes. ANC secretary general goes with general secretary of Cosatu. ANC deputy secretary general goes with deputy general secretary of Cosatu. ANC treasurer general goes with treasurer general of Cosatu. We were present in all 16 rallies of Cosatu. Incident free, except in Bloemfontein and in Polokwane, Mantashe said.WATCH: Phosa throws name into ANC presidency ringMantashe said in preparation for the May Day events, the ANC met Cosatu President Sdumo Dlamini and General Secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali on Friday and they were assured that things were under control and that they needed not to worry. It is not like we left things to chance, we didn t leave things to chance. We met Cosatu, we discussed in detail that listen, the environment looks very polluted and what should we expect, said Mantashe.Mantashe also said that the ANC, SACP and Cosatu, will be having an Alliance Secretariat on Friday, which will be working on the Alliance Political Council, we will engage on these issues. The concept of 'Mantashing' has found its way onto SA lexicon. What does Mantashe say about 'Mantashing'? Hope he doesn't Mantashe on this.. pic.twitter.com/YC8c2w6XsTeNCA