JOHANNESBURG – Four men were shot dead Friday morning and two others injured in a bloody shootout on the N12, near the Putfontein turnoff in Benoni. ER24 Spokesperson Russel Meiring said when paramedics arrived, along with other services, they found two motionless men inside one of the two cars that were on the side of the road. “Unfortunately, both men had already succumbed to their gunshot wounds. Nothing could be done for the men and they were declared dead,” said Meiring. Two other men with gunshot wounds were found in the veld a short distance away. “These men had also sustained fatal gunshot wounds and were later declared dead,” said Meiring. READ: Two police officers killed in Kimberley shootout According to Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo of the SAPS, policemen on routine patrol came under fire from brazen gunmen on Friday morning when they flagged down a silver Mercedes Benz along the N12, near the Luthuli Informal Settlement. The Flying Squad members ordered the driver to stop, but the occupants responded by opening fire on the members of the SAPS which resulted in a shootout. One of the SAPS members sustained injuries when he was shot in the leg by the suspects. The police responded to ward off the attack and in the process all four armed suspects in the Mercedes Benz were fatally wounded. Police recovered three rifles and ammunition. Explosives were also found in the boot of the Mercedes Benz. The vehicle had been reported as hijacked in the Yeovil area in April this year. “The SAPS will continue to ensure visibility on the streets of our country and confront, within the confines of our laws, all those whose aim is to make life difficult for our people to do their day to day business without any fear,” said acting national police commissioner, Lieutenant General Khomotso Phahlane. “The response by our members this morning must be commended by all of us in that they sent a strong message to all criminals that crime and criminality cannot be tolerated. “Those making themselves guilty of the commission of crime and, in particular, the onslaught on our people by brazen criminals wielding firearms in the streets of our country, will receive no mercy from the South African Police Service.” Phahlane also wished the injured policemen “a speedy recovery”. African News Agency