OTTAWA, Canada Kenya s Eliud Kiptanui crushed a world-class field to win the Ottawa Marathon on Sunday, winning the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) Gold Label road race in 2hours: 10minutes: 14seconds.Most noteworthy was that Kiptanui, who has a best of 2:05:21 in finishing second at the 2015 Berlin Marathon, was a late addition to the field, after failing to finish the Vienna Marathon last month.On Sunday, he ran away from Ethiopian Seboka Dibaba and his fellow Kenyan Levy Matebo in the closing three kilometres, to take the first prize of CA$40,000 (R385,140).The Ethiopian, trying to extend his country s grip on this race to five consecutive victories, was no match for Kiptanui, but he fought his way back to take second place after Matebo had forged ahead temporarily.Dibaba s time was 2:10:31, with Matebo in 2:10:48, taking third place from Uganda s Moses Kipsiro, whose 2:10:49 in fourth place was a personal best and more indicative of his potential at this distance.The temperature was 13degC at the 7:00am start, but with no cloud cover and no wind, it rose quickly to about 18degC midway through the race. Remarkably, three pacers had led a six-man pack through the half-way point in 1:03:40. After the pacemakers dropped out (at about 31km) I decided to push the pace, said Kiptanui. Then I was in a position to take the pace. I had enough energy. I knew when I was in front, I had a lot of energy. I was making a decision at which place to go. That s why I came first. I was not worried. The conditions were a little bit warm; that s why we couldn t make a good time. I had no intention of running for time, I just wanted to win. It has been a long time since I won a race. Kiptanui explained it was visa problems that conspired against his racing performance in Vienna. He only arrived the day before the marathon and got to 30km feeling tired and decided to save himself for another day. His decision was obviously a wise one.Dibaba was pleased with the fact he battled back for second place and earned CA$20,000 (R192,784) which is double the third place money. I am happy that I am second, he said. The weather was really nice. The course was nice, except there were a few hills which make you more tired. The women s race became another battle of attrition with Ethiopian Hiwot Gebrekidan, 22, charging through the first half in 1:11:11, 20 seconds ahead of the field. Over the next half hour she extended this to about two minutes, but in the closing kilometres, she was impeded by the heat.With the dedicated pacemaker visibly imploring her to continue, she was running slower than 4:00 per kilometre. Her compatriot Guteni Imana pulled back the deficit and passed her in the last kilometre.Imana crossed the line in 2:30:18 with Gebrekidan holding second place in 2:30:53. I was not really expecting to win this race, Imana said. I thought I might be second or third. I was a little bit uncomfortable with a sharp feeling in my stomach, but when I felt a little relieved, I ran a faster pace. This makes eight consecutive years that the women s race at the Ottawa Marathon has been won by an Ethiopian runner and again the top four were from the East African nation.Aberash Fayesa finished third in 2:31:27.Defending champion Koren Jelela and 2015 winner Aberu Mekuria were among the pre-race favourites but suffered in the conditions. Mekuria finished fourth in 2:33:46 while Jelela, pointing to a pain in her back, was ninth.Early leader Gebrekidan needed medical assistance at the finish, received treatment and returned for the post-race press conference.She said: It was really difficult, especially the last three kilometres was really hard for me. I was not able to turn the legs, so it was very hard. The reason I am so happy is that I finished second. African News Agency