CAPE TOWN The reappointment of Brian Molefe to Eskom has drawn censure from multiple sources after its announcement on FridayThe National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) said the appointment was a joke and would add to Eskom's leadership woes.In a media release, the union said Molefe was returning to Eskom under a cloud after the State of Capture report by the Public Protector implicated him.LISTEN: Brian Molefe to return to Eskom This situation is contributing towards making Eskom one of the weakest organisations in terms of leadership. We will await a proper invitation from Eskom so that we can comment appropriately on this joke, the statement said. The NUM would like Eskom to extend its new HR [human resources] policy to its members and other employees who can exercise their right to resign or take early pension voluntarily and later return to their previous position without loss of benefits. Last month, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown objected to Eskom s R30 million pension payout to Molefe. The South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) has called for the sacking of the Eskom board for taking the decision.In a statement Saftu demands that the decision to reinstate Molefe must be immediately reversed and that the entire Eskom board be dismissed and that a new democratically accountable board be appointed with representatives from the Eskom workers and communities .The board decided to rescind Molefe's application for early retirement because it could not agree with him on a mutually beneficial pension proposal .Saftu said it was outrageous that someone facing serious allegations in the report of the former Public Protector can continue to head a vital national enterprise.Saftu added that it was particularly alarming that Eskom chairperson Ben Ngubane, said Molefe s skills set would assist the power utility as none of its applications for coal purchases had been approved by the Treasury. Does this mean that he hopes Molefe will be able to persuade the new Minister of Finance, Malusi Gigaba, to hand over the money for these purchases, which has predecessor did not approve? The federation said Molefe s reinstatement confirmed assertions by the General Secretary of the National Union of Metal Workers Union (Numsa) Irvin Jim, that the problem of cronyism and corruption is even worse.The Democratic Alliance (DA) said it wants a full-scale parliamentary inquiry to probe the circumstances leading to, and the reasoning for, the decision.DA Spokesperson on Public Enterprises Natasha Mazzone, said in a statement that the return of Molefe to Eskom would see the Gupta family reclaim their influence over the power utility, and most likely the country s planned nuclear procurement deal. The return of Brian Molefe to Eskom is a monumental disaster for the power utility, which is currently in a dire state of affairs and is surrounded by a swirling cloud of Gupta-linked corruption allegations as a result of Molefe s tenure, Mazzone said. As such, the DA will write to the Chair of Chairs Cederic Frolick, to ask that the Public Enterprises committee launch a full-scale parliamentary inquiry into Eskom." It was clear in the Public Protector s damning State of Capture Report that Molefe was seriously compromised in his position at Eskom. He, himself, on leaving Eskom cited the interests of corporate good governance as requiring him to leave, Mazzone said. Importantly, the criminal charges that I laid against Molefe still stand and I trust are being actively investigated by the South African Police Service. Mazzone said South Africa deserves to know the truth behind the many scandals currently engulfing Eskom. It is imperative that Parliament conducts an inquiry as a matter of urgency to ensure that those who are responsible for abuses are held to account not least, Brian Molefe, Mazzone said. Our lawyers have also been instructed to investigate every angle possible to review this ridiculous and irrational decision. African News Agency