JOHANNESBURG Protest action in Ennerdale, south of Johannesburg took a violent turn on Tuesday morning as residents and police clashed. Long day ahead for police, as protesters keep regrouping. #Ennerdale pic.twitter.com/LJdB8r4iDlPolice fired rubber bullets in order to disperse a crowd which had blocked roads with burning tyres and rocks. Protests here started early hours of this morning. #Ennerdale community demanding housing issues be resolved, wants development, pic.twitter.com/AEb4YCnqk5Ennerdale residents say their protest is motivated by the lack of development in the community, including their inability to occupy vacant land in the area. Ennerdale hasn t had development in over 30 years now, said Ennerdale resident Margery Cass. The #Ennerdale community also feels ignored by the provincial government, they say there've been many unkept promises. Last year we had [Gauteng Human Settlements MEC] Paul Mashatile out here ... he promised the community that he s going to build houses, that they re going to allocate land to the people, and nothing has been happening ever since last year. There was no promises that were fulfilled. So the community is tired of having these people come out here and make empty promises, and they re not delivering on the promises. We're in #Ennerdale service delivery protest.Police using rubber bullets to push back protesters.Protesters hv been fighting back with rocks pic.twitter.com/63f2Knx81wREAD: Protests erupt in EnnerdaleCass says they want Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba to address them personally and listen to their demands. We as a community of Ennerdale have given them enough time, she said. The problem is not at his offices, the problem is a community problem. The mayor needs to come here to come and address, and to come and tell us what the way forward is. They re sitting high up in the offices, and they are doing nothing for the people here down on the ground. Protesters approaching police, hands in the air. #Ennerdale pic.twitter.com/azzuJOIRwteNCA