CAPE TOWN - ANC MP Yunus Carrim nearly came to blows with Andile Mngxitama, the leader of Black First Land First, on Wednesday in public hearings on the transformation of South Africa s financial sector.Carrim, the chairman of the standing committee on finance, shouted at Mngxitama to leave the meeting for calling Joan Fubbs, the chairwoman of the trade and industry portfolio committee, a fascist . I have the utmost contempt for what Andile has said about Joan, Carrim said before getting out of his seat, walking to where Mngxitama was sitting and ordering him: Go, just go. Members of Black First Land First left their seats to put themselves between Carrim and their leader, who had earlier complained that it was fascist of Fubbs to allow MPs to interrupt him and then to warn that he had limited speaking time.The BFLF movement gets into a scuffle in @ParliamentofRSA! pic.twitter.com/geTNJYx410Outside the Good Hope Chamber, Mngxitama reiterated his protest to Carrim that he had called Fubbs s intervention and not her person fascist. Obviously I was taken out of context. I had told her it was fascist of her, not that she was fascist, and she was cool with that and we moved on. But now he s being fascist to behave like that. Earlier, Carrim and Mngxitama had sparred verbally over Black First Land First s contention that the economy was controlled by white monopoly capital because it still controlled the means of production two decades after the fall of apartheid.Carrim twice asked whether the conduct would be any more reprehensible on the part of a black monopoly. Mngxitama dismissed his remark as disingenuous. You are trying to delegitimise the struggle against white monopoly capital, Mngxitama charged.Carrim also objected to Mngxitama saying that former finance minister Pravin Gordhan, who was fired at the end of March, had blocked economic transformation.When BLF made the initial submissions, @pravingordhan was Minister of Finance. This has changed Thank God! @Mngxitama #EconomicLiberation pic.twitter.com/EMTL6YeQX7 I find it crass and not relevant to the issue, Carrim said.African News Agency