JOHANNESBURG - The local reality show Uthando NeS'thembu has set tongues wagging about the show's core concept; Polygamy. The show's title, which translates to Love and Polygamy, is set in hilly KwaZulu-Natal and follows the lives of businessman Musa Mseleku and his four wives; Busiswe "Mamkhulu" Mseleku, Nokukhanya "MaYeni" Mseleku, Thobile "MaKhumalo" Mseleku and Mbali "MaNgwabe" Mseleku. The premier aired on Thursday, May 18 and was a hit... well at least as far social media is concerned. Of course, the 'main man's' lifestyle and how he could afford the maintenance of four households drew many questions about what Mseleku does for a living. "I was initially going to leave it for the show to reveal what I do, but it seems it's a burning question to many people. I own a four-star lodge around Port Shepstone and also have a little bit of business in property development," Musa Mseleku told eNCA's Ayanda Allie-Paine on the channel's weekend show on Sunday. Surrounded by three of his four wives, Mseleku opens up his homes, giving the country a rare look at polygamous lifestyles. The wives reveal some tit-bits of their marriages, including how they deal with the intricacies that plague most relationships; jealousy, conflict and sharing their husband's time. "We have tried a number of ways to make this work and I'm fortunate that I have wives that communicate and work out the logistics of where I spend my time," the father of 10 said. The eldest wife, Mamkhulu shared how she deals with the pressures of being in a polygamous relationship. "When he comes to my house he is my husband. He knows to leave the polygamy at the door and just be my husband," Mamkhulu said. MaYeni, the second wife, indicated that she would be wary of recommending such a marriage to someone who does not have the heart for it. "If my children said they wanted such, I would tell them of the advantages and the disadvantages first and then they can decide for themselves," MaYeni said. Catch the full interview here: eNCA