LOS ANGELES - A week after making headlines with an impassioned healthcare argument , invoking his newborn son who recently underwent open-heart surgery, Jimmy Kimmel returned to his show on Monday night, providing an update on his family and commenting on the GOP s recent healthcare vote. One week ago tonight, I made an emotional speech - that was seen by millions - and as a result of my powerful words, Republicans in Congress had second thoughts about repeal and replace, they realised that what is right is right - and I saved health insurance in America! Oh, I didn t? They voted against it anyway? I really need to pay more attention to the news, he said, according to a transcript obtained by Variety.Kimmel took time to say that his son, Billy, is doing very well, eating, sleeping, and getting bigger. He also thanked those who made donations to Children s Hospital Los Angeles since his speech, but also called out those who had not-so-nice things to say online. sincere thanks for the outpouring of love & support - Dr. Jane is keeping a close ear on Billy, who is very well - XO pic.twitter.com/QgSUminhmgHe pointed to a New York Post article with the headline Jimmy Kimmel s obscene lies about kids and medical care, as well as a Washington Times article titled Shut up, Jimmy Kimmel, you elitist creep. I can t even count the number of times I ve been called an out of touch Hollywood elitist, creep this week, he added. Which I have to say I kind of appreciate because, when I was a kid, we had to drink powdered milk because we couldn t afford the liquid variety. Our orange juice came frozen out of a can, it would squeeze out. WATCH: Kimmel blasts Trumpcare in emotional tribute to son's carers My father on the rare occasion we took a family trip would hide our dog in the car and then smuggle it into the motel room to avoid paying a two-dollar pet fee. So after that, my dream was to become an out of touch Hollywood elitist. And I guess it came true, he said.The host went on to offer a less-than-sincere apology for his speech: Anyway, I d like to apologise for saying that children in America should have health care. That was insensitive it was offensive and I hope you can find it in your heart to forgive me. Kimmel then took aim at Newt Gingrich, showing a clip of the former Speaker of the House on Fox News Sunday rebuffing Kimmel s previous argument, noting that hospitals will not turn away a sick baby. Yes, it is true that, if you have an emergency, they will do an operation, and that s terrific if your baby s health problems are all solved during that one visit, Kimmel said. The only problem is that never, ever happens. We ve had a dozen doctor s appointments since our son had surgery. You have a cardiologist, a paediatrician, the surgeons, some kids need an ambulance to transport them and that doesn t even count parents who have to miss work for all this stuff. Those details, Newt forgot to mention, he went on. I don t know if the double layers of Spanx are restricting the blood flow to his brain. Just last week, Trump and the GOP s healthcare plan passed the House and is now moving onto the Senate, a development that happened while Kimmel was taking a break from hosting.In his original speech, Kimmel got teary-eyed as he described the complications of the birth of his son just 10 days prior. He broke down as he made a plea for politicians on both sides of the aisle to make sure Americans have access to healthcare, especially for those with pre-existing conditions. If your baby is going to die it shouldn t matter how much money you make, he said at the time.Reuters