JOHANNESBURG - Volkswagen South Africa has launched what the streets are calling the Vrrrrrr Pha 7.5 or, in laymen s terms, the new Golf GTI facelift.While most observers, the man on the street so to speak, will not notice the changes, they are certainly present. Yes, even inside the cabin and under the bonnet. Keep in mind that South Africans love the GTI so much that more than 60 percent of all Golf products sold here are GTI and R too. So when we speak of Golf, many of us speak only of GTI. However, this mid-cycle facelift covers the Golf range, not just the favourite son, even though I got to drive only the infamous Vrrrrrr Pha! So for the record, we have the 1.0-litre TSI producing 81kW, the 1.4-litre TSI with 92kW, and the 2.0-litre TSI inserted into the GTI.Where the previous car made 162kW, this updated model is good for 169kW, which happens to be the same as the GTI Performance Pack of 2015.Did I notice the 7kW bump in power? Or the 350Nm of torque? To tell you the honest truth and nothing but I did not.READ: Revealed: Performance Pack for 2017 Volkswagen Golf GTIOnly if I was some kind of engine whisperer would I notice 7kW. What I did notice, however, is how taut, but still comfortable, it is.See, that is what leaves GTIs' rivals in the proverbial dust. It s the hot hatch that gets under everyone s skin. GTI is the car that anyone, from an 18- to an 80-year-old can drive without feeling otherwise .I felt like this during my drive, over 200km of it. At times I would prod the accelerator with a full punch to release all 230 horses through the front wheels.That kickback facilitated by the excellent 6-speed DSG auto gearbox would come in, hit the back of my head on the headrest, throw my cheeks rearwards and fly on, changing gears as quickly or as smoothly as I wanted.At some point I might have hit the 248km/h top speed, I m not sure.READ: 2017 VW Golf revealedWhat I do know is that the cabin was well-insulated and relatively quiet at high speed, and the engine did not make any annoying noises.The cabin itself is upgraded, most notably with a new infotainment system that features gesture control. That s when you wave your hand/ finger across the screen and something happens.For instance, you can scroll through the main menu, change radio stations, scroll forward or back through the playlist or browse in the picture viewer and in the music albums.Active Info Display, with a 31.2cm screen located behind the steering wheel, makes its Golf debut here.It works in exactly the same way as the one found in the Passat, showing car information like fuel consumption, range etc. And it also shows the satellite navigation, which you can scroll through very easily.Volkswagen has packed as much safety equipment into the GTI has it could find, starting with the usual airbags everywhere , ABS brakes with EBD, ESP and an ISOFIX child seat preparation.Additionally, we get Adaptive Cruise Control (ACC) and/or Front Assist including City Emergency Braking, Park Distance Control and Parallel Park Assist among others. Note that some of these are optional. The Park Assist can help the car park semi-autonomously in any space, be it parallel or perpendicular to the carriageway. It can also exit these spaces.Where did Volkswagen activate exterior changes, you know, the ones that let the world see you are driving a GTI 7.5, not a GTI 7?For one, full LED headlights replace the previous xenons, something the world will see only at night. A new, redesigned lower chrome strip on the front grille, cooling air openings and hidden radar sensors are some of the changes made.READ: Man clocked at 235km/h in KwaZulu-NatalThe rear has flowing LED lights, which, as the word suggests, flow outwards as the car indicates. We first saw this coolness in certain high-end Audis.There is no doubt that the GTI is an extremely popular car with the young people of this country.In fact, it is so popular that some reject it straight out on that very basis; they don t want to be seen to be riding with the crowds. And therein lies one of its secrets; GTI has somehow managed to please everyone.This facelift model only improves on a brilliant formula.2017 Volkswagen Golf (facelift) Prices1.0 TSI 81kW Trendline Manual (R289 900)1.0 TSI 81kW Comfortline Manual (R304 200)1.4 TSI 92kW Comfortline DSG (R356 400)2.0 TSI 169kW GTI DSG (R545 800) IN4RIDE