JOHANNESBURG - The International Cricket Council s (ICC) Champions Trophy, is to be held in England and Wales from June 1 to 18, with most of professional cricket s elite in attendance, hoping to clinch glory for their country in the most important competition outside of the One-Day International (ODI) World Cup.The world s premier cricketers and coaches are looking forward to the 2017 edition, with South Africa looking to add to their solitary major title, which they won in the inaugural tournament in Bangladesh in 1998, which was then known as the ICC Knockout Trophy.Proteas ODI captain and star batsman, AB de Villiers, said: There are eight teams that want to win it and can win it, but we do think we ve got a very good squad here. I ve got a good feeling about this one. Ntini and Kallis: SA s top individual performers in history of Champions TrophyKagiso Rabada, the brightest young bowling prospect SA has produced in recent seasons, is ready to take on all-comers: If the Champions Trophy was tomorrow, we re definitely ready. The Proteas comments come after SA thrashed a hapless Sri Lanka 5-0 at home this season, before going to New Zealand, where they beat the Black Caps 3-2 in the one-day series.Veteran fans of SA cricket may have grown wary of such optimism, since readmission in 1991. After the farce of a rain-affected match in Sydney (which subsequently spawned the Duckworth-Lewis method) in SA s debut at the world cup in 1992, fans have seen SA being agonisingly close on several occasions, only to falter at the crucial moment in major tournaments. Favourites tags or ICC number-one rankings have accompanied the Proteas to tournaments previously, but frustration has been the perennial theme.Gary Kirsten, SA s coach at the 2013 edition in England, said after another semi-final defeat: If we had the secret recipe to turn it around, we would certainly have packaged it and be selling it. At some point, we are going to have to try and cross the line. It s going to require some real charisma, some real guts and glory to get over the line. Kirsten, of course, like many Proteas fans, played in one of the closest and most gut-wrenching one-day games in world cup history, at Edgbaston in 1999. Their semi-final was against bitter rivals Australia, where SA failed to qualify for the final by one run, with the match tied and Allan Donald and Lance Klusener running off the field into ignominy.READ: Quinton is desperate to do well at Champions trophy DomingoIt would exorcise many a demon should SA go on in 2017 to do something special at the same Birmingham venue, which is one of three being used for the tournament the other two being The Oval in London and Sophia Gardens in Cardiff.Joe Root of England, recently announced as England s new Test captain for 2017, will be under Eoin Morgan s captaincy for the tournament. Root s consistency with the bat over the last five years has made him a reliable fixture in the team, but he is also hoping to turn his arm over for the Three Lions.He said: It s so much better than scoring runs. I can see why some of the bowlers get so excited at times because it s great fun. Chris Gayle, the West Indies veteran limited-overs opener, said: I am not a weather man to tell you about the sort of climate you will get, but little experience that I have had playing cricket in England over the years, you can get five different kinds of weather conditions in a single day. Over the years, some revealing quotes from players and coaches have been reported at the tournament.Ottis Gibson, West Indies coach in 2013 said about his mercurial team: That s the one thing you will get when you come to the stadium to watch West Indies play, you will be entertained. George Bailey, of an under-performing Australian side at the time, said in 2013: In the past, our best was certainly the best in the world. If Australia played their best, no one could match them. And if they had an off day, it was only just an off day. READ: De Kock is hands down the Cricketer of the YearProlific Pakistani batsman Younis Khan gave an indication of what the tournament meant to him in 2009: We re all used to playing in pain, and the motivation has to be there to get up and play for the country. I am not 100%, it will hamper my fielding and if I get hit, I will be in pain but the big picture is, why not come out and do something like Sachin (Tendulkar) did in 2003, something for my country, for which they will remember me for ages. On the subject of the so-called minnows , West Indian legend Brian Lara, during the Champions Trophy in 2006, after West Indies beat Zimbabwe by nine wickets, said: If Zimbabwe was not here for this tournament, you might say Bangladesh shouldn t be here as well, but they ve beaten Pakistan and Australia and you have to give them the opportunity. It s good for cricket on the whole and we just have to accept that. READ: De Villiers to carry SA hopes in tournament of world s best ODI playersRicky Ponting, arguably one of the world s greatest batsmen of all time, captained Australia through the second part of their era of dominance over the long and shorter formats of the game. He took over from Steve Waugh and went on to captain Australia to consecutive world cup titles in 2003 and 2007, while also garnering consecutive Champions Trophy titles in 2006 in India and 2009 in SA.After winning their first Champions Trophy title in Mumbai in 2006, he beamed: The silverware as such doesn t mean too much, but winning the event means a lot. It s not always easy to come to India and win tournaments, and we have managed to win a few in the last couple of years. We didn t sit back and wait for things to happen, we went out and made them happen. African News Agency