CAPE TOWN Cape Town City made sure of a third-placed finish in the PSL when they defeated Golden Arrows 1-0 in an Absa Premiership fixture played at the Athlone Stadium on Wednesday night. The halftime score was 0-0.There was an early chance for Arrows when Magubane whipped a free-kick to the far post, but Limbikani Mzava failed to make the most of it. The KZN side continued to impress as City appeared to struggle in the opening stages of the encounter. Kudakwashe Mahachi then created an opportunity for Siphelele Magubane, but the midfielder shot wide of the target.City gradually found their feet and the action swung from end to end. Good work from the Cape side s right-back Thamsanqa Mkhize opened up a chance for Lehlohonolo Majoro, but the striker fired wide. At the other end, Arrows showed that they were just as much in it when Mahachi struck an attempt wide.The game continued in the same tit-for-tat fashion with regard to scoring opportunities. Knox Mutizwa shot wide for Arrows, while, for City, Lebohang Manyama had an inviting chance, but the skipper missed with his headed effort.Despite all the chances on both sides, the teams trooped off with the score goalless at half-time.Majoro had an early chance for City in the second half but shot wide. Mahachi, too, should have done better for Arrows a few minutes later but missed as well.Arrows made a change, bringing off Magubane and replacing him with Lerato Lamola. The substitute proved to be a lively addition and was unlucky when he fired an attempt wide.City then had their best opportunity of the half, when Thabo Nodada was through, but Arrows goalkeeper Nkosingiphile Gumede pulled off a great save to deny the midfielder. The Cape side finished strong, with Judas Moseamedi nearly snatching the victory, but he, too, was foiled by Gumede.City were awarded a penalty in the 83rd minute when Manyama was brought down. The captained got up to take the penalty himself but struck his shot against the woodwork.Just when it looked like a goalless stalemate would ensue, City snatched the points when Musa Bilankulu steered Aubrey Ngoma s cross into his own net.African News Agency