JOHANNESBURG Former New Zealand fast bowler, Shane Bond, has been discussing the enormous challenge of bowling in modern one-day international cricket, ahead of the International Cricket Council s (ICC) Champions Trophy, taking place in England and Wales from June 1 to 18.The lively Bond played 18 Tests, 82 One-Day Internationals (ODIs) and 20 T20 Internationals (T20Is) from 2001 to 2010. He took 87 Test, 147 ODI and 25 T20I wickets.Bond s best figures in ODIs are 6/19 and he also produced a remarkable spell of 6/23 in one of the games at the Cricket World Cup 2003 in South Africa.READ: South Africa remains top of ICC ODI rankingIn his column on the ICC s website (www.icc.cricket.com), Bond observed that the change in fielding restrictions in the last 10 overs of a one-day international has eased the pressure on the bowlers a little, but not much overall. Five men outside the 30-yard circle from overs 41 through 50 is a welcome development, and I say this purely from a bowler s perspective, but for the most part, the bowlers are pretty much second-class citizens in white-ball cricket, he said. The slow bowlers specifically are resorting to a more negative line of bowling, not because they want to but because they have to. In an era gone by, the pattern was to tee-off in the first 15 overs, build through the middle of the innings and then launch a final onslaught. That philosophy has now gone out the window. Batting line-ups are coming hard even outside the PowerPlays because the field restrictions allow them to hit over the top with freedom which is why, increasingly, we have so many scores in the mid-300s. To stem the bleeding is really tough, which is why teams are relying on analysis more and more. Speaking from my experiences with Mumbai Indians, we do heaps of work on how to limit the damage, on how to get players out. Preparation has become a huge aspect of modern-day cricket, and the teams ought to have already done that sort of work in the lead-up to the ICC Champions Trophy. If you have not prepared yourself before the start of the tournament, the damage has already been done. If you look at the stronger teams in world cricket, they are the ones who have five genuine bowlers, guys that can take wickets. A majority of the top sides has, at least, one leg-spinner, an attacking spinner always on the lookout for wickets. If you can t take wickets in 50-over cricket, then you are in serious trouble.Bond commented on the limited use of the yorker and the tendency for cricket fans to assume that it should be the death bowler s weapon of choice. The yorker is being used differently, and bowlers are also experimenting with a range of slower balls. The yorker is not just one of the most difficult balls to bowl, the margin for error is also extremely small. Therefore, it becomes vital to use that weapon judiciously. You must have the ability to change the length bowl the yorker, yes, but also use the bouncer, the slower ball, the length ball. You don t bowl the full ball to certain batsmen, you don t bang it into certain others. All of it is very much opposition, ground, conditions and batter-dependent. At the end of the day, it not so much about the outcome; it is important to see how the bowlers have got their wickets at the death. African News Agency