CAPE TOWN The Stormers finally managed to snap a string of defeats when they surprised the visiting Blues from New Zealand with a 30-22 victory in their Super Rugby clash at Newlands on Friday evening, after they trailed 12-10 at the halftime break.Both teams scored three tries each and the Blues were also denied a bonus point for losing by less than seven points.The Stormers were full of running straight from the kick-off and managed to keep the play in the opposition half. They ran up a 3-0 lead in the 4th minute when fullback SP Marais goal a penalty from close to the halfway line.There were early signs that the Stormers were holding their own at the breakdowns and in the 7th minute they went one better with a turn-over which sparked an attack deep into the Blues 22m area. There were several opportunities to breach the Blues defence but the Stormers failed to capitalise even though they enjoyed a one-man advantage following Matt Duffie s 12th minute sin-binning.Once the Blues managed to shake off the Stormers grip on the match, they launched a telling counter which broke down virtually on the opposition midway through the first half.Play was held up for several minutes after a scuffle with tempers flaring and referee Jaco van Heerden sent off Eben Etzebeth for starting the problem. At the same Duffie returned to the fray, having served 10 minutes on the sidelines.This time, however, the Blues capitalised on their one-man advantage as centre George Moala crashed over a try after scrum virtually under the Stormers posts. Flyhalf Piers Francis goal the conversion (7-3).The Blue continued to enjoy the ascendancy and their pressure took its toll again in the 32nd minute when hooker James Parsons crossed at the corner flag. Francis attempt from the touchline was fractionally wide (12-3).Right on half-time, the Stormers made a late first-half sortie good when flanker Siya Kolisi crashed over for his side s opening try. Marais added the conversion to make for a 12-10 halftime scoreline.Second-half play was hardly under way when the Blues stormed upfield, causing problems for the Stormers defence as they battled to contain the surge. Flank Blake Gibson made the breakthrough as he found a gap in the Stormers central defence. Francis conversion pushed the scoreline out to 19-10.In the ensuing minutes, the Blues continued to exert pressure but twice in quick succession they came up short of the tryline.Once the Stormers managed to see off that pressure spell they took play up to the Blues 22m area where they managed to gain a penalty, which Marais steered through the posts (19-14).The three-point lift seemed to inject new life into the Stormers and for six minutes or so, approaching the hour mark, they laid siege to the Blues tryline. It needed a touch of telling individualism of the part of Stormers stand-in flyhalf Dilliyn Leyds to crack the defence and he did just that in the 59th minute. Marais conversion allowed the Stormers to regain the lead at 20-19, somewhat against the run of play.In the 67th minute, Duffy was sent off for another yellow-card offence his second in the match after he dived on Cheslin Kolbe, who was lying on the ground.But there was more of the same a few minutes later when the Stormers again broke through the defence and this time it was replacement loosie Sikhumbuzo Notshe who dotted down. Marais conversion gave the home side an eight-point cushion (27-19).In the closing eight minutes of play, each side managed a penalty and at the end, the Stormers retained the eight-point difference to deny the Blues a bonus point.Scorers 30 (10): Siya Kolisi, Dillyn Leyds, Sikhumbuzo Notshe. Conversions: SP Marais (3). Penalties: Marais (2) Blues 22 (12): Tries: George Moala, James Parsons, Blake Gibson. Conversions: Piers Francis (2). Penalty: Bryn Gatland.African News Agency