POLOKWANE Limpopo police on Saturday strongly condemned the conduct of community members who seem to be hellbent on taking the law into their own hands .In the Sekgosese policing area in the Mankweng policing cluster, two people, aged 39 and 48, were arrested on Friday in connection with arson and public violence after the community of Vaalwater Two village went on the rampage and burnt two thatched houses and a six-roomed house belonging to an old man aged 67 , Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said. Allegedly, members of the community suspected him to be responsible for the murder of his friend, also 67, whose body was discovered in the nearby dam earlier during this week. The body was tied and had open wounds. The wife (67 years) of the so-called suspect was at home when a group of people arrived, singing and chanting at her gate. They then broke the gate and asked the whereabouts of the [complainant s] husband who wasn t at home at the time and they ultimately started torching the houses. The [complainant] however managed to escape unhurt. READ: Four arrested after Limpopo vigilante violenceThe arrested suspects would appear in the Sekgosese Magistrate s Court soon and more arrests were expected. The police investigation was continuing, Ngoepe said.In the Mutale policing area outside Thohoyandou, angry communities in Tshibvumo, Tshamulingwi, and the neighbouring villages allegedly burnt down a seven-roomed house of Ms Dovhani Munyai, who is thought of having knowledge behind the whereabout of a 26 years (Muzila Shumami) who is a mentally challenged man and who went missing on the 21 March 2017 during the night at Tahibvumo village , Ngoepe said.On Thursday, members of the community allegedly attempted to burn her house , but due to the swift reaction by the police public order unit they were unsuccessful. Police then took her and her two siblings away for safety.READ: Limpopo police station, vehicles torched Last night [Friday], quietly, the same community members torched her house and subsequently in the early hours of today [Saturday] they torched the local supermarket accusing the owner for also being involved in this matter and the supermarket is still on fire now. The suspect s are still unknown and there is no arrest. Police investigations are continuing, Ngoepe said.Anyone with information on these incidents should please contact Lt-Col William Ramokhubedu on 082-499-8389, or the nearest police station, or the crime stop number 08600-10111, or the crime line sms 32211.African News Agency