JOHANNESBURG - SA's Got Talent (SAGT) begins auditions for its 8th season in Johannesburg on Saturday.SAGT, South Africa's most-watched talent show, has created a host of superstars.The pre-auditons for the show will be hosted in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban during May.SAGT noted in a press release that "contestants who reside outside of Gauteng, Western Cape and Kwa-Zulu Natal can still enter, by submitting videos of their show-stopping acts via an online submission form. The criteria for entry remain as simple as ever: Any act. Any age . "However, anyone under the age of 18 must be accompanied by a chaperone throughout the entire pre-audition process on the day.The show urged contestants to think outside the box as the quirkiest, most creative acts were most likely to capture the judges' attention.WATCH: One on One with SA's Got Talent winner, DJ Arch"We have seen so many of our SA's Got Talent stars from the over the years go on to achieve great things, said Marlon Davids, MD of e.tv Channels Division. Everything from performing alongside the world's best artists in South Africa to getting record deals overseas, SA's Got Talent is the platform that started their careers."We are proud of what the show has in unearthing unique South African talent and look forward to welcoming the next big star - or stars - to the e.tv family . Online auditions, which are only for contestants who reside in provinces outside of Gauteng, Western Cape and Kwa-Zulu Natal, close at midnight on 31 May 2017. The pre-auditions in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban are: Johannesburg: 6 and 7 May 2017 at The Pyramid Conference & Venue Centre (96 Eloff Ext SE St, Johannesburg). Gates open: 7:00am ; Gates close 12:00pm.Cape Town: 13 and 14 May 2017 at Newlands Rugby Stadium (8 Boundary Rd, Newlands, Cape Town). Gates open: 7:00am ; Gates close 12:00pm.Durban : 20 May 2017 at Moses Mabhida Stadium (44 Isaiah Ntshangase Rd, Durban). Gates open: 7:00am ; Gates close 12:00pm.Submit your online audition for SA's Got Talent here. 