DURBAN Commuters have been left stranded in Durban after taxi drivers embarked on a strike on Wednesday morning.Taxi owners have cited victimisation by carmaker Toyota, banks and insurance companies for downing tools. Durban - #TaxiProtest Central / CBD RT @That_Noxx @TrafficSA west street completely blocked coming from Berea road pic.twitter.com/iNGHsHFMe7The strike has led to the closure of a couple of routes in the city. VIDEO: Passengers scream for help in alleged taxi altercationTaxi owners are aggrieved at the amount of money they are being charged for productions and services rendered to them for their vehicles. There comes a time where talking is no longer effective, that means we have to take action and that is position that the taxi industry finds itself now, where the taxi industry says it's tired of talking and it is now time for action, said TaxiChoice chief operating officer Thulani Qwabe. That is the only way that the taxi industry feels that they are going to achieve any change. @jvbtrafficguy #DurbanTaxiStrike Traffic still backed up N2 southbound Joyner Road exit. All traffic stopped. pic.twitter.com/YwJVP0kFga So what do you we want to change? The status quo in terms of the value chain, in terms of how it is owned and how we pay for certain products and services. The amounts that we pay for certain products and services are not acceptable to the taxi industry and it is not sustainable. The prices of the vehicles, the industry feels that they are exorbitant, the insurance premiums are too high, the interest rates are unreasonable and the tracker fees are unacceptable. Warwick Avenue, South side of SAPREF, Nandi Drive have been blocked off. Traffic on the N2 Southbound at Mvoti toll has been slowed down. Durban - #TaxiProtest Isipingo: Taxi blockade and protest - HEAVY TRAFFIC pic.twitter.com/rx1lnkbRYx Durban - #TaxiProtest N3 Inbound: RT @Vegg_mfe2man @TrafficSA taxis blocked N3 going towards town, strike action by taxis pic.twitter.com/pUKYqiT7Ov Durban - N2 Highway: #TaxiProtest RT @nathimasuku N2 north just by Twini hill. It's a glorified car park cc @TrafficSA pic.twitter.com/iJPgtBPECl eNCA