JOHANNESBURG In the history of the Comrades ultra-race only one female athlete from the USA has managed to win it as Ann Trason achieved the feat in 1996 and 1997.Since then, the American female athletes have been battling to repeat Trason s success. Only three other athletes managed to finish in the top five. Kami Semick was fourth in 2010 and third in 2011, and Devon Yanko was fourth in 2012.This year, Sarah Bard will be aiming to be the one that will make the big breakthrough. Last year the American running for Nedbank Running Club finished fourth in a time of 6:42:35. She certainly has the credentials. In 2014 and 2015 she won the JFK 50 Miler, she also has won the USATF 50km Road National Championships in 2015 while finishing fourth in IAU 100km World Championships.Bard admitted that her preparation for last year s Comrades was not what it should have been. I didn t have a strong motivation to get out there and run every day, said Bard. I just think I was very lucky and was able to rely on my muscle memory and long-term base. I trained at pretty low mileage and I m a higher-mileage runner. I was training at like 50 miles per week before Comrades. I think I got like one good week in there, but it was like 50 to 65 miles most weeks. I knew I was in no condition to win but I felt like I had a good shot to place between third and sixth, based on times from past years. Actually at Comrades I must have tied on the timing chip wrong because it kept tightening my shoelaces. So I stopped three times to re-tie my shoes, but it kept tightening, so my one leg was shutting down from like 30km in. I stopped at one point and asked a stranger to massage my butt while I was standing up. My entire leg was becoming something that I was dragging along with me. It was a tough race. The downhill takes it out of you; I started to look forward to the uphill. If everything goes according to plan Bard hopes to a time close to six hours in her second Comrades attempt. I do feel like the longer the race, the stronger I feel. In both Comrades and the 100km championships, I passed most of the people in the last 10 kilometres of the race. Like I ve reached this certain point in the race and I can actually open it up and not worry that my body will shut down. African News Agency