JOHANNESBURG - Two men are hitting the road for women s rights.Sarel Nong and Chris Dippenaar are part of the #Trek4Mandela team, set to climb Mount Kilimanjaro in July. The expedition will raise funds for #Caring4Girls, a campaign providing sanitary pads to young women in poor communities. Sarel Nong with his #Trek4Mandela team members during a hike in the Drakensberg. Photo: Sarel NongNong will ride his motorbike to Tanzania, before heading up Kilimanjaro. He ll travel with a group of bikers, as they visit several communities along the way. We are hoping to challenge certain ideas about women, he said. We want to end gender-based violence in these areas. The Polokwane businessman is a living legend in local biking circles. He led the Sapa Yopa bikers club for nearly 10 years.Now, he s getting revved up for a good cause. We will rest for a few days after our ride, said Nong. Then we will climb Kili for the sake of the girls. Businessman Sarel Nong visits a school for the #Caring4Girls programme. Courtesy: Sarel NongChris Dippenaar also hopes to raise some bucks with his bike. The Cape Town executive wants to cycle down Kilimanjaro, after reaching the summit in the early hours of the morning. He ll carry his 15 kg bike up the peak, using a special rig he built himself.Chris Dippenaar used an old backpack to build a rig for his upcoming Kilimanjaro climb. Photo: Chris Dippenaar I really want to use cycling to help the less fortunate in our country, said Dippenaar. I want to show people that nothing is impossible, if you persevere. #Trek4Mandela climber Chris Dippenaar carrying his bike up Table Mountain. Dippenaar and Nong are proving that men have a role to play when it comes to so-called women s issues.Charlotte Sibiya was one of the first pupils who benefitted from the #Caring4Girls programme. She said more men should get involved. "South Africa can learn a lot from this campaign. Everyone must take responsibility. This is a problem which affects our entire society." eNCA's Michael Marillier with #Caring4Girls ambassadors, Philisile Mona, Nombusa Sibiya and Charlotte Sibiya. The #Trek4Mandela team hopes to summit on 18 July. They ll face a massive task, climbing to an altitude of nearly 6,000 metres.But Dippenaar and Nong are sending a clear message sexism can take a hike.Track the #Trek4Mandela journey:Twitter: @Trek4Mandela;@Caring4Girls;@MikeMarillierInstagram: mikemarilliereNCA