CAPE TOWN - The South African Communist Party (SACP) is considering whether it should go it alone in the 2019 elections.On Saturday it asked delegates at its provincial congresses in the Western Cape to debate the matter.The ANC's alliance partner reiterated its call for President Jacob Zuma to step down.READ: SACP remain resolute in call for Zuma to step downThe SACP says its alliance partner is set for an electoral failure and South Africa's fortunes will continue to slip if Zuma stays."It's awkward to say this. I worked with the comrade in Lusaka for instance. And we respect what the comrade did in the past. But comrade Zuma, in your own interest, resign. Step down. Please do this President Zuma," said the SACP's deputy general secretary Jeremy Cronin.He told delegates that the ANC was riddled with problems and continued to lose face with the electorate.He bemoaned the reappointment of Brian Molefe as Eskom CEO."Hardly a day goes by without controversies. Last week we saw a deep rot prevailing inside our movement ... As an organisation it is very important that there is consultation. You can't act like a fly-by-night individual, advised maybe by a faction somewhere. A faction that may even exist in Saxonwold," Cronin said, referring to the Gupta family, whose home is in the Johannesburg suburb of Saxonwold.Cronin said that even if Zuma did not resign and survived a motion of no confidence, he could still face impeachment before his term of office is over."For instance, an independent judicial inquiry into state capture could well be the basis ... Allegations that are coming out about the Seriti commission, how people were influenced directly by the president -- that hasn't been tested by a court, but that in itself could well result in an impeachment," added Cronin.He told delegates that the SACP would continue to debate whether to contest the 2019 elections on its own.That decision would probably be made when the party meets for its national congress in July.eNCA