JOHANNESBURG Cooler conditions were welcomed by players for the second round of the South Africa Disabled Golf Open on Tuesday at the King David Mowbray Golf Club in Cape Town. Def champ Chad Pfeifer from USA sets 1st round target at 2-under 70, but Spanish one-legger Juan Postigo turns -1 in #CanonSAOpen at KDM pic.twitter.com/Kq6NcEaHMvAmong the top international golfers competing this year are Bob MacDermott (Canada); Martin Williams (Wales); Shaun Bakker (United Kingdom); George Mecs (France), Cian Arthurs (Ireland) and Manuel De Los Santos. South Africa is represented by Byron Calvert, Herman Van Wyk, Ben Van Zyl, Rupert Fortmann and Reinard Schuhknecht amongst others.American leg amputee Chad Pfeifer leads the 54-hole the tournament after a 70 at King David Mowbray Golf Club on Tuesday.The defending champion moved to four-under-par 140 and leads by three strokes from Juan Postigo from Spain. My irons were real, really good and so was my short game which led to four birdies, said the 34-year-old. " Chad Pfeifer leads at 2-under, Kenny Bontz 2nd at 2-over & Oupa Christo de Jager leading SA player at 5-over 77 in #CanonSAOpen @Canon_SA pic.twitter.com/oHO2rRUqHQ My driver was a little off, though which cost me my two bogeys on the day. I had three trouble at 12 and 15, but managed to make two decent bogeys and my short game saved me. The Spanish 21-year-old led day one with a superb 69, but slipped three behind with a 74, while Pfeifer s compatriot Kenny Bontz is third on 149 following a 75. Christo De Jager from South Africa is lying fourth on 154 following a round of 77. Def champ Chad Pfeifer from USA & Spanish one-legger Juan Postigo are on fire! International pair -1 & leading by 2 in rnd 1 of #CanonSAOpen pic.twitter.com/3AfOgug9hzIt looks like the honours in the SA Deaf Championship is going down to the wire with four players in the hunt going into the final round. Dudley Rossouw from Bethlehem is on 163 after rounds of 84 and 79 and he is tied with defending champion Charlie Williams. Former US Corporal Chad Pfeifer fired 2-under 70 & sits 1 shot behind Juan Postigo of Spain after Disabled #CanonSAOpen first round at KDM pic.twitter.com/xdWnqwM669The 23-year-old King David Mowbray golfer carded rounds of 81 and 83. Given Holose, a caddie from Kei Mouth is just one off the pace after rounds of 84 and 80 and Clovelly Cedric Touzard, who followed up an 89 with a fine 76, is a further shot back on 165. African News Agency