JOHANNESBURG - Mamelodi Sundowns are gunning for another win in the Absa Premiership as they welcome Baroka FC at Lucas Moripe Stadium on Wednesday night. Kick-off is at 7.30pm.The Brazilians are motivated by their 2-0 win over Orlando Pirates last weekend and will want to bag another victory as they try to defend their Absa Premiership crown.On the log table, Sundowns sit second with 54 points from 26 matches, three points adrift of league leaders Bidvest Wits.READ: Wits look to break Stars hoodoo in BethlehemThe Brazilians are up against a side fighting to save their top-flight status and they are aware this will be a difficult encounter, and at the same time hope Wits will drop points against Free State Stars in a midweek league match.Here we go Masandawana, it's Matchday! #Sundowns pic.twitter.com/ktH88Vci3C In football you never know where you are going to drop points and Baroka will not be easy to beat, says goalkeeper Denis Onyango. We know that Wits struggle when they go to Free State Stars and we hope that we get a positive result against Baroka. We know their coach Gavin (Hunt) is experienced when it comes to keeping the position at the top of the log. I ve worked with him before and I know how strong he is. It s in Wits s hands. But if we get a chance to get on top of the log I think we will win it. We re just hoping they will drop points while we pick up points. We are ready to take on Baroka and are confident we can get another three points. Shifting the point of view to the Limpopo-based outfit, Bakgaga Ba Mphahlele are facing the relegation chop and will want to win this contest to stave off the axe.However, coach Milton Dlamini is struggling to find a winning mentality in his troops. Baroka squandered two opportunities to bag six points out of their previous two matches.They drew twice against Orlando Pirates and Bloemfontein Celtic after leading in both encounters.However, they now face a challenge to stun the Tshwane giants on Wednesday night. African News Agency