JOHANNESBURG Farwa Mentoor (Nedbank Running Club) will hope for a fairytale return when she lines up to compete in the Comrades for an 11th time next Saturday.Between 2002 and 2011 Farwa won 10 gold medals in the Comrades. The ever-popular Mentoor s best race was in 2004 when she finished third in a time of 6:14:13. She also boasts seven finishes inside the top five.In 2012 Mentoor suffered hamstring tear which effectively ended her career as a Comrades-athlete, but it would seem Mentoor cannot resist a good challenge as she makes a comeback.The Nedbank Running Club-athlete admits that she missed competitive racing, but the real reason why she decided to get back into shape was to clear her mind. I had some serious personal issues to deal with and the best way for me to do so is to run, as it gives me a new perspective as to what I should do and it energises me, said Mentoor.In what should not be a surprise it did not take Mentoor long to start thinking about running the Comrades again. The deciding moment was when she completed one of the Cape Town marathons in a time of 3 hours and 15 minutes. It proved to her that the old girl might just still be good enough to run the Comrades. I just hope my brain and body still remembers as to how I should go about racing the Comrades. I think muscle memory ought to kick in after a few kilometres, Mentoor jokes. I think I will try and stay to my proven race plan from the past in which I started off slightly conservatively running at a pace I am comfortable at. I am firm believer that you will be able to make up the time you lose in the beginning of Comrades if you still have fresh legs over the second half of the race.According to Mentoor she has no preferences as to running up or down. To me it is all the same. I know there is going to come a stage during the race where I am going to really suffer. Comrades is a hard race. It does not matter in which direction you race you got to realise that you are going to face some serious climbs and that your body is going to take strain as you are running downhill. I guess this Comrades is going to be the one which will indicate if I still have what it takes to race with the best or whether it is time to just run for the love of running. African News Agency