JOHANNESBURG - Polokwane City host Kaizer Chiefs at the New Peter Mokaba Stadium in their Absa Premiership assignment on Saturday evening hoping to retain the three points. Kick-off is at 6pm.Rise and Shine will be banking on their home run to stun Steve Komphela s charges who have been stuttering in recent times.The two sides are separated by a 10 points and one place on the table, but still the Citizens will keep fighting to ensure their spot in the top eight. They are sitting at number six on the log with 37 points from 27 league games.The Polokwane-based outfit come into this game off the back of a loss after they saw their winning run come to an end when they were defeated 3-2 by SuperSport United last weekend.However, prior to that defeat, they dispatched Golden Arrows at home and Free State Stars away.The Citizens will also be gunning for revenge against Chiefs, having lost in the first round 3-2 at the iconic FNB Stadium back in December.READ: Matsatsantsa made to sweat for 3-2 victory over Polokwane We know Chiefs will come here to gain the three points and we will have to fight hard for victory, said midfielder Sammy Seabi. We lost the first leg and going to this one means we must fight as we want to consolidate our position in the top eight. Everybody is aware what they bring here, although we are at home, we must never undermine them. We know they are capable of winning games and we must respect them Chiefs have quality players. I am sure we will be ready for them come match day and we hope to retain the full three points. The Soweto giants will also be desperate for points because they have not been consistent in their performances in recent times, if results in the league are anything to go by.They lost 3-2 to Cape Town City, drew 2-2 against SuperSport United and 1-1 against Clinton Larsen s Golden Arrows last week.On the log table, the Naturena-based outfit occupy the fifth spot with 47 points from 27 league matches, one point behind fourth placed SuperSport who have played a game more.Although they have already secured a spot in the MTN8 Cup, Chiefs will hope to wrap up their 2016/17 Premier Soccer League campaign in style.Coach Komphela will have to ensure his defence is solid and avoid conceding goals in the dying stages of the match as they did against Arrows in their most recent match.In fact, their failure to remain switched on has cost them valuable points in their previous three encounters. We messed up against Arrows and will take the next three matches seriously, starting with Polokwane, says. When you look back at how many matches we have gone on like this, dropping points because of conceding late on, it has cost us. It s unfair to the supporters and everybody else who want to see us get points. I am very disappointed. It s not the first time we conceded late against Arrows I don t know how many setbacks like this we ve suffered. You don t learn from these mistakes, but each time it happens you ask yourself why does it happen so often? We don t know when we will do better the matches we are supposed to win, we are giving away. It needs to improve and it starts with Polokwane. AFP