JOHANNESBURG - Norma Gigaba says she is a self-made woman and there is more to her life than being the wife of Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba.The IT executive and philanthropist, who married Gigaba a few years ago, sat down with eNCA s Ayanda-Allie Paine to chat about money, love and betrayal. Mrs.Gigabytes as she is known, says she has made huge strides in the technology world after transitioning from work overalls to the boardroom, cinching major deals. In the beginning I wore overalls but being a technician and desktop publisher made me realise that I don t want to dress up like this, I want to do IT, Gigaba said. So let me do another course that is going to be fancier, that will allow me to be a lady because I am more of a lady. So I did graphic design and I designed websites and logos. I am into business. We've got clients like Impala Platinum, where we bring IT into mining. We bring IT into aviation and also, I deal with a lot of tenders. READ: Moody's expected to downgrade SA despite Gigaba visitShe says the Mrs Gigabytes nickname is derived from her career as an IT businesswoman but the name aptly fits in with her new surname.Gigaba says when her husband was informed by President Jacob Zuma that he would be made finance minister, his biggest worry was the about future of the Home Affairs department he had led since 2014. When the president called him, we were in a fashion show in Cape Town and it was 10pm and we were eating dinner there, she revealed. The first question that the he asked when the president told him was, what is going to happen with my Home Affairs . When we got home we saw the news. Malusi was so shocked, frustrated and was thinking about the rand. I was so excited, but Malusi was so shocked. READ: Cabinet reshuffle: Meet SA's new ministersThe Gigabas have caught the public's eye with their love for fashion, however Norma Gigaba says she has no time for people who suggest she s using her husband s money to fund a passion for the finer things in life.She says she is ready to be the country s first lady should her husband occupy the highest office in the land one day. If it comes, it comes, I am ready, we will see, said a giggling Mrs Gigaba. If it doesn t, then it doesn t, we will see, we will respond. The finance minister's wife also spoke to Ayanda-Allie Paine about the negative stories in the media about her marriage. Click in the video gallery above for more on that chapter of her life. eNCA