It is the 1st May 2017, and the Old Mutual joBerg2c finished an unbelievable two days ago. I now find myself sitting in the comfort of my own JHB home on a crisp autumn morning, piecing together the fundamentals of the phenomenal journey that I have just completed.When I made the decision to take part in this event towards the end of 2016, I knew just a few things about it.The official description of this race/event as per the joBerg2c Facebook page read as follows: Professional and social riders will traverse private farms, country roads and special trails on their journey from Johannesburg to the coastal town of Scottburgh.The route is not about being the toughest or the roughest but rather about the magnificent views, the awesome community spirit and a sensational single track. In addition, I knew it was long, tough, not to be underestimated, and vaguely a combination of 2 other stage races I ve previously completed ( Sani2c and Berg and Bush ). I d heard the hospitality was good, that the vibe was better than most, and that the communities in each of the towns you pass through really brought their A-game in terms of spirit. Overall, I had high hopes and expectations.From reading my previous blogs, kindly featured on eNCA, you will know the more personal motivation for me wanting to conquer this race... That bucket list thing , personal goals, and most importantly the honouring the memory of my late mother through the More Than Myself portal. The raising funds and awareness for OneVoice South Africa , a KZN based NGO that recognises the crucial role young people can play in the prevention, early detection and management of HIV and TB became a driving force for me.So two days after race finish... I look back. I rode a total of 874.62km, with 11,597m of climbing/vertical ascent over 45 hours and 23 minutes. I slept in a tented race village in 8 different locations, and in all sincerity, had a profound life changing experience on all levels, physically, mentally and emotionally.6 months ago, a standard 70km MTB marathon (such as Sabie or Clarens) was do-able, but not necessarily a breeze. A month or so before this race, riding 90/100km was do-able, but again, took some determination. Over the course of the last 9 days I ve cycled in excess of 120km almost daily, at times on some pretty testing terrain with its fair share of climbing, and all I can say is that I am amazed. I am truly amazed at what the human body has the ability to achieve. I m humbly amazed at what my own body (and mind) has achieved through sheer persistence and determination, introspection, meditation, breath and focus.Without becoming too philosophical but in the essence of precis, I have found this race to be a metaphor comparable somewhat to the journey of life. It was cathartic, and has shown me that I have merely scratched the surface of my capabilities as a rider (and dare I say, in my life). If I could sit on a bicycle seat for 45+ hours and cycle nearly 900km, what else is within my realm of possibilities. This is an opportune start allowing me to find out.Was I happy with my result in the race? Considering that I didn t (just) enter this race for the usual reasons, yes, absolutely. Finishing 139th out of approximately 820 who started the race really isn t bad going. I have had the time of my life in all my motivations for this race, and will do whatever I can to get back there for the 2018 adventure.My highlights are numerous: meeting and riding with people from all over the world, specifically Yongo from Kenya, Jan and Wilmien from Namibia, Hannah and Anna from New Zealand, Amandine from Switzerland, Gavin from Alberton, The Avis Van Rental Ladies Team of Ann and Nadine all such wonderful colourful companions and characters.The track, the route I simply don t have enough adjectives to do justice. On the joBerg2c website it says The Route is King , and that s the only way to put it. You have to ride it to understand it.2 neutral days (day 1 and day 9) with 7 solid days of proper mountain bike racing in between also made this race inimitable. This simply meant that the bulk of us who are not pro riders got the opportunity to ride alongside and socialise with some of the country s best. I ve already mentioned riding alongside Grant Usher and Amy Beth McDougal on day 1. But it was on Day 9 or as it is fondly referred, the champagne stage that I experienced pro riders Nico Bell & Gawie Combrinck (of NAD Pro MTB) stopped on the side of the track assisting 2 random riders with a puncture. These 2 neutral stages, created the best atmosphere I ve ever experienced in a mass MTB race. Fond memories like racing Danny Vogel from Germany and winning !!The sense of community that I ve mentioned in previous blogs, seeing parts of the country that I ll possibly never see again, seeing regions/districts where the funds raised for OVSA are likely to make a distinct difference, passing a lodge in the Midlands where I spent my honeymoon, and areas provoking memories from my childhood so many positive overwhelming wonderful emotions.The actual concept of riding my bike to the beach still blows my mind and hold a certain sense of fantasy.So I went into this race with high expectations, and in reflection those expectations have been considerably exceeded.In conclusion, it would be amiss, for me to not mention a few specific people who have played a part (big or small), in my journey toward this achievement.Bandile Mngoma from Old Mutual for seeing my vision and for making all of this possible. I cannot thank you enough my friend.Megan Earl, my personal Soigneur , advice giver, driver, sponsor, homie and amazing friend. You were part of this wonderful process from day 1.Linny and Rae Earl for your incredible support and daily motivation.Ingrid and Vanessa at The Shed Marketing, for helping me to turn a wild idea and dream into a full on campaign . Champagne and Sushi!!Fabian Valsecchi at Northcliff Cycles Wattbike Studio for pushing me harder, putting grey hairs on my chest , getting my legs strong and my pedalling technique right! I ll bust out a few watermelons for you next week.Taryn Collister (provincial Tri-Athlete) for imparting all of your knowledge on nutrition (and training) and helping me get into the best possible shape I could. I can t thank you enough. Dancing Yogi Megs for Yoga and Breathing back to basics.Marlijn and her team at OneVoice South Africa for agreeing to go on this journey with me and giving me a tangible cause to work towards through your program.Craig and Kelly Wapnick for your support, and for putting on such an incredible event.My dad, Colin Grenfell, for being my biggest supporter, for encouraging me, for believing in me, for contributing financially to the More Than Yourself campaign.I undertook this journey to commemorate the life of my mother, Ingrid Grenfell, who passed away from Tuberculosis on 28th March 2016.Through the support of a number of key people, I was able to turn it from just a memorial ride to a tangible vehicle to give back to those in need in communities affected by TB on a daily basis, and to raise awareness for a silent killer that is often overlooked in modern society today. Tuberculosis is not just a poor, rural disease, it can affect anyone. It did my own mother.Rest in peace my beautiful mother, and thank you for making me the man I am today.Total Funds Raided to dateCurrently the More Than Yourself platform has a total amount of R41,000 raised, with approximately R10,000 having gone directly to OneVoice South Africa s own fundraising platform.Thank you to every single person that has supported this cause.Follow my journey on eNCA.comREAD: JoBerg2c a first timer s account, blogging and ridingREAD: JoBerg2c: A first timer s accountREAD: Day 3: Old Mutual JoBerg2c, complete and I am feeling strongREAD: Day 5 JoBerg2c: A first timer s account- Kevin Grenfell eNCA