JOHANNESBURG - Angry community representatives from the south of Johannesburg have laid bare their grievances after a week of protest action.Government officials listened to community members as they aired their grievances on Sunday. Residents have demanded action on housing backlogs and other issues.They came to the meeting demanding answers and when government officials kept them waiting, they threatened to leave.READ: Police search for looters in Eldorado Park, Slovo ParkThe anger was palpable as officials struggled to contain the situation."We agreed we are going to have mutual respect here," said Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu.But the community representatives would not be swayed "We want land, we want land," they chanted."They come to us. They know that we exist, only when they come canvassing for votes," said one resident."Having all these people from all these communities under one roof in front of cameras and media is not what we asked for when they came to Eldorado Park," said anoother."We are still in the apartheid era. Let me be direct. We haven t even seen a little development in Kliptown," added another resident."We want firm policing on all developments surrounding informal settlements and the development of new housing. We are appealing to you please listen to us," said another."If there will be development in Slovo Park, and also a budget, we want it in black and white," demanded the residents.READ: Protests erupt in EnnerdaleGovernment officials have promised accountability, saying they are not blind to what is going on in communities. We are here to make promises where we are going to work with you. Hold us accountable together as government. When I come here I didn t come as ANC and him as DA. We are here as government, said Gauteng Human Settlements Paul Mashatile."There are problems that we are dealing with as a country that are really dire. That are life and death. We are not blind, we are not deaf to your problems. I came here together with three spheres of government to indicate to you that we are concerned," said Sisulu.Government officials have also promised to provide feedback on the timelines and budgets.eNCA