JOHANNESBURG The Gauteng Department of Education pleaded with parents on Thursday to assist with enforcing discipline in and outside the school environment following a highly publicised rape incident at a Johannesburg primary school.In a statement, the department said it was concerned and disturbed by an incident involving minors that took place in March at I R Griffiths Primary School in Randburg.It is alleged that four Grade 7 boys raped a Grade 2 pupil in the boys bathroom.READ: 2016 Matric results in numbersThe pupil did not report the matter immediately; however, she later complained to her parents of having pains. She was taken to a doctor who found that the child had been sexually assaulted.The GDE said the parents informed the school about the assault, which took place during school holidays. The school, in turn, informed School Governing Board (SGB) Members, which instituted a disciplinary inquiry.The alleged perpetrators were then taken through a disciplinary process on Thursday, last week. Two of the boys were exonerated. However, the SGB recommended the two other boys, who were found guilty, be expelled from the school.The school then submitted the recommendations to the GDE head of the department for his consideration.Meanwhile, parents of the raped child also reported the matter to the police. The accused were arrested brought before a court on Monday. They were released into the care of their parents and the next day they again appeared in court. The case continues. All affected learners have been referred to the Teddy Bear Clinic to receive psychological support, the GDE said. The department strongly condemns any acts of sexual misconduct in schools and encourages learners never to listen to anybody who tells them not to tell, for fear of victimisation. Learners must report such incidents to their parents, police or any other trusted figure of authority. The GDE said it urges learners to abide by the school code of conduct at all times and refrain from acts of misconduct. The department has a zero-tolerance stance on allegations of sexual assault and has never hesitated to act where allegations of this nature have been proven to be true, warned the GDE. African News Agency