JOHANNESBURG - SA Under-20 coach Thabo Senong says his charges are disappointed with their 2-1 loss to Japan in their opening match of the 2017 FIFA World Cup against Japan on Sunday.Amajita are now third in Group D with no points the same as Italy who lost 1-0 to Uruguay in the other group match.Japan and Uruguay are level on three points each.READ: Stuart Baxter to set sights on Super Eagles on Bafana returnSouth Africa faces Italy on Wednesday in a crucial clash where a loss for either side could mean the end of the road in the tournament. We knew from the start that we were in a tough group Japan, Champions of Asia; Uruguay, Champions of South America and they also won their first game yesterday, as well as Italy who are very tough to penetrate, said Senong. So it wont be easy and again we have to work hard to open up the Italians, we have to compete with them in set-pieces and aerial battles, we need to dig deeper to get a positive result. For this mission we need players with intelligence, with big hearts but I have no doubt in the ability of our team. The mood and atmosphere is still positive in the camp, the boys are still fully focused for the next two matches in our group. Amajita had a light training session on Monday, and will have their final workout on Tuesday, before taking on the Europeans in their second match of the tournament.South Africa v. Japan - FIFA U-20 World Cup 2017 We needed to refresh them a bit, obviously they are a bit stressed after the loss on Sunday but we have to keep going and make sure they are fresh for the next match. We are in the competition phase now, so it s always important to deal with the psychological part of the players we need to motivate them all the time. We are disappointed with the result against Japan but we are not discouraged, we still have six points to fight for, added Senong.The Amajita mentor has welcomed into camp two players who joined the squad late due to club commitments.Bidvest Wits defender Reeve Frosler arrived in Suwon on Saturday after helping his team win the the South African Premiership title, while Supersport United midfielder Teboho Mokoena landed in the Korea Republic on Monday following his club s qualification for the Nedbank Cup final. Frosler is adapting very well. He managed to sleep about six hours, which is good my biggest concern was that he would not be able to sleep for long as he battles the huge time difference, but he looks ok and is available for selection. I also hope that Teboho, who has just joined us, is also available but we will see how things go with him, said Senong.Meanwhile, first choice goalkeeper Mondli Mpoto missed training as he had a bout of flu but he is under the watch of the medical team and should be back at training on Tuesday.Amajita and Italy meet on Wednesday, at Suwon World Cup Stadium in Suwon. Kickoff is scheduled for 10am South African time (5pm local time).African News Agency