JOHANNESBURG - Hijacking is at its most rampant in the past 10 years, with a 14.5 percent increase in this kind of crime since the 2015/16 annual crime statistics report. On average, 45.8 cars were hijacked per day in 2016/17. More than half of these crimes occurred in Gauteng. WATCH: 'Our station level must ensure we're felt in communities': Mbalula Explore this map of Johannesburg's top carjacking hotspots according to the Crime Intelligence Bureau South Africa. Arrive Alive spokesman Johan Jonck says: "We would like to emphasise the need for caution among road users and offer some suggestions to increase vigilance on our roads. Even though there are no guarantees to safety we believe road users could be safer by being more vigilant on the road and by driving undistracted." Ten tips from Arrive Alive to protect yourself from a carjacking at an intersection 1. If approached by a stranger while in your vehicle drive off if possible or use your hooter to attract attention. 2. Lock doors, close windows and do not have bags or briefcases visible in the vehicle. Use the boot for this. Cellphones should also not be visible. 3. There are times and days that these items are visible in the vehicle. Try open the window that a thief might “smash & grab” about 3cm so the window can absorb any sudden impact. If you’ve left enough stopping distance you might be able to escape. 4. When approaching a red traffic light at night slow down so that you reach it only when it turns green. 5. Do not take anything from people standing at traffic lights or gathering places  (such as job seekers' gathering points). Perpetrators often stand among these people. 6. Make sure no one is following you.  If you suspect you are being followed, drive to the nearest police station or busy public area. 7. Always have your identity document and driver’s license with you as well as a pen and notebook to take necessary notes. 8. If you encounter obstacles in the road, such as rocks or tyres, do not get out of your vehicle to remove them. Reverse and drive away in the opposite direction. 9. Do not stop to eat or rest on deserted roads. 10. Do not leave your vehicle unattended at a petrol station. eNCA