JOHANNESBURG - Cricket South Africa (CSA) has released a statement giving more details about the recent shock news that the proposed T20 Global League has been postponed until next year. Subsequent to a Board meeting held on Tuesday, October 10, via teleconference. READ: CSA announces new points system for first-class cricket A follow-up meeting was held on Sunday and the following decisions were made: 1 - The Board reiterated its decision to postpone the start of the inaugural T20 Global League to the beginning of November 2018. The circumstances that led to this decision are being further scrutinised and discussed. The Board has also appointed a project team to lead and oversee the project going forward. 2 - The Board recognises and appreciates the fact that the afore-mentioned decision has led to general disappointment in the country and to the cricket supporters in particular. It must be emphasised that the Board took this decision in order to avert any potential financial ruin and reputational damage to the organisation. The decision to postpone the commencement of the league has been taken in the best interests of the sport of cricket and the organisation. READ: CSA T20 tournament franchise owner pulls out 3 - The Board will continue to engage with the franchise owners in ensuring that a very successful T20GL is launched in November 2018. In this regard, the Board is encouraged by the continued commitment expressed by the franchise owners to work with CSA in delivering the league. The franchise owners have also expressed their intentions to avail their expertise and experience to CSA, to enable CSA to deliver a successful league campaign. 4 - The Board has approved the commencement of a broad scope investigation into the internal processes on all aspects of the T20GL, as undertaken by various parties during the period of the establishment of the league. These investigations have already commenced. 5 - The scope of the investigation will in principle cover the planning and execution of the T20 Global League with specific focus on, inter alia, aspects of governance, agreements concluded, payments, staff recruitment, authorisation and delegation of authority, league development strategy, decision making etc. READ: ICC could axe Champions Trophy for more T20 World Cups 6 - The Board shall await receipt of the findings emanating from the investigation, and thereafter consider its options going forward. 7 - In order to give space and time to the investigations to be conducted, CSA will make no further media comments on the matter. CSA concluded the statement by saying it was committed to conducting credible and valid investigations for the benefit of the game and a successful inaugural T20GL tournament in November 2018. African News Agency