JOHANNESBURG – ANC Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa says the party has contributed to the divisions in Umkhonto We Sizwe. Ramaphosa was on the campaign trail, attending the MK Conference at Nasrec and the ANC Youth League's 73rd birthday celebrations in Hillbrow. He's widely regarded as one of the frontrunners to become the next ANC president, at the party's December elective conference. READ: Ramaphosa calls for ANC to elect honest leaders MK combatants have seen two different conferences taking place this year, one led by Kebby Maphatsoe and the other by General Sphiwe Nyanda. Earlier this year, President Jacob Zuma addressed Maphatsoe's MK Veterans Association, which came out in support of presidential hopeful, Nkosasana Dlamini-Zuma. On Saturday, contender for party president, CyRamaphosa addressed the MK Council. Ramaphosa said it's the ANC leadership's fault that former uMkhonto We-Sizwe combatants are divided. READ: Sisulu coy, but Mbete confirms ANC presidency bid “We can't achieve unity in the ANC if former MK Combatants are not united, we want you to be united and we want you to work tirelessly to forge that unity, as the leadership of the ANC we must accept that we have not taken up the challenge ourselves to unite MK. In fact if we are to be honest we have also contributed to the divisions that exist, this is a time for honesty and truth must be told if we are to achieve unity within the ANC.” Ramaphosa gave another clear indication he’s ready to lead the ANC. “I am ready to rise so that the ANC and the country could rise.” With the party’s elective conference just over two months away, he also addressed a Youth League rally in Johannesburg. Ramaphosa called on the league to campaign for a generational mix in the ANC leadership. “ I agree with you that the ANC must be youthful, I support your call for generational mix but you must send the most capable, credible and uncaptured young leaders who have the interests of young people at heart.” Ramaphosa says he is no longer worried about the December elective conference. He said he’s now set his sights on the 2019 general election. eNCA