JOHANNESBURG - It’s that time of the year when many people are considering either buying a new car or replacing their current one. Most of them will apply for finance from a credit supplier, which brings us to the matter of a credit report, fondly known as “ITC”. A credit report shows your credit management, account management and your general financial status at any given time. It is the document that providers of finance consult when analysing whether to give you the finance you require or not. In that credit report is a credit score, which is a number given to your credit responsibility. It takes into account your past credit behaviour and, unfortunately, it cannot be changed overnight. You need to work on it over time -- months or even years. Financial lenders also use the credit score to ascertain how your financial transaction will look in terms of interest rates and so on. The better your credit score, the more likely you will not just get an approval but you will get better payment rates, thus aiding your financial management. These are things we rarely look at as most of the time we focus just on getting approval. The worse your credit score, the most likely you will either get a decline or financial terms that are not good for you, further putting you in a bad situation or making it more difficult to achieve excellent financial viability. Generally, the higher the score on your credit report, the better your financial management is considered: EXCELLENT: 767 – 999
	GOOD: 681 – 766
	FAVOURABLE: 614 – 680
	AVERAGE: 583 – 613
	BELOW AVERAGE: 527 – 582
	UNFAVOURABLE: 487 – 526
	POOR: 0 – 486 It is important for each individual continually to monitor his or her credit score through a credit report. By law, each person must have access to a free credit report once a year. Should you require one more often than once, you will have to pay for it. By accessing your credit report, you can also see if it contains misinformation that hurts your credit score. You have the right to challenge what you consider to be false or incorrect information. But you will not know this information unless you request and monitor it. READ: Five tips to reduce your home loan Here are some steps on how you improve your credit score so you can have better financial terms on your next vehicle finance, home loan, car finance application, clothing account etc: READ: Pick n Pay allows customers to buy on credit IN4RIDE