Editor's note: This live event has ended. You may watch a recording above. PARLIAMENT - The Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula briefed Parliament before the release of the crime statistics later on Tuesday. Mbalula focused heavily on police leadership in his opening address. He stated that bringing down crime in South Africa was in the national interest irrespective of political affiliation and "violent criminals will receive a proportional response to what they dish out." "The environment we are in requires leadership … in order for us to succeed", said Mbalula. Mbalula noted that alcohol abuse was a factor in the overwhelming number of crimes.  He said that crime levels needed to drop significantly. "We have a 1.8% drop in crime. I do not feel it and our people do not feel it," he said. "Our station level must ensure that we are felt in the different communities." Mbalula said that the SAPS had to admit that the chop and change in leadership had affected the focus of policing. The change of guard from national commissioners Bheki Cele to Riah Phiyega had negatively affected police work. But, he said, "our intention is to hold people accountable , to give direction to our police force on the ground," he said. "Police stations and 10111 are the places where service delivery begins." Major General Norman Sekhukhune, head of police crime research and statistics, broke down the statistics for Parliament. He said that Gauteng with 4,101, had the most murders in the country, while Mpumalanga had shown the greatest increase in its murder rate, with murders up 11.1 percent. In contrast, the Northern Cape's murder rate was down 7.5 percent. Contact crimes  Reported crime stats per province  According to reports released by Corruption Watch and the Institute for Security Studies on Monday, police and other departments should interrogate how they can improve their services. The reports argue that politically driven appointments in law enforcement agencies weaken their ability to fight crime. They also called for the appointment of a permanent national police commissioner and Hawks head to be done transparently. READ: What to expect from the annual police crime statistics There are also concerns about the number of crimes that are not reported to police.  Findings of the National Victims of Crime Survey, conducted by Stats SA,  showed that reporting rates vary for different crimes. In 2015/2016 for example, 95 percent of people who were aware of murders reported it to the police compared to only 17 percent who were victims of crop theft. The recently released 2016/2017 survey indicated that the rates of reports for house robbery fell from 66 percent to 57 percent year-on-year. Many people also reported dissatisfaction with police and the justice system.  eNCA