JOHANNESBURG - With Kaizer Chief and Orlando Pirates struggling to keep their places at the top of the South African football table, a win in Saturday’s Soweto derby would be a massive boost for either club.
	
	It may not be a season-defining game but would certainly provide a welcome injection to two teams who in recent seasons have lost some of their swagger and self-belief and have failed to consistently fire on all cylinders.
	
	The Soweto giants, the two best-supported teams in the country, have taken a rather envious back seat over the last few years while the likes of Mamelodi Sundowns, SuperSport United and Bidvest Wits have enjoyed the trophy-winning limelight. Stats and Bets: The Soweto Derby Pirates had what must rank as one of their worst-ever seasons in the last campaign, not only finish a lowly 11th in the league but also battle off-field issues and go through a succession of coaches.
	
	The appointment of Milutin ‘Micho’ Sredojevic for a second spell at the club has sparked hopes of a revival after a promising early run of form. But although Bucs remain in third spot on the table, their momentum has been dulled down with two draws and a defeat in their last three matches.  Amakhosi, on the other hand, come into Saturday’s derby at the FNB Stadium (3-30pm kick-off) on the back of an uplifting 2-1 victory over Sundowns.
	
	That win, however, may only have granted momentary respite for head coach Steve Komphela, who is under increasing pressure after failing to win a trophy in his first two seasons with the club, and for a poor win percentage stretching back to last season (just three wins in 15 games before beating the Brazilians).
	
	The Sundowns win though took the Glamor Boys to fourth position, one point behind Pirates and within four points of log leaders Baroka FC.
	
	Komphela, who is juggling a squad hit by a spate of injuries including striker Gustavo Páez, knows as well as any the fickle nature of the game, especially for those operating under the weight of expectation a big club naturally brings. READ: Security tightened ahead of Soweto derby A balanced approach is what he’s looking for and he has cautioned his men not to get carried away by Tuesday’s victory at Loftus.
	
	“There’s a fine line between arrogance and confidence, we need to stay confident without being too arrogant,” he said.
	
	“It was a nice confidence boost winning a match. But we said it when we went to Baroka (a 2-1 loss) – they wanted it more and they got it. When we went to Sundowns, we wanted it more and we got it.
	
	“We’ll go to Pirates and we need to have the same feeling, because if you think otherwise then you’ll have problems, and we don’t want to go through problems.”
	
	Sredojevic might not have got the results he wanted in the last three outings, but the Serbian is confident that Bucs are on the right path. However, he’s aware that they won’t be helping their cause by making careless mistakes in defence or missing chances up front.
	
	“I believe that with the eight games behind us‚ with the performance that we had we deserved much more than the present 13 points,” he said after the 1-1 midweek draw with struggling Platinum Stars.
	
	“Self-critically we need to look at ourselves. In football, you have the critical phases‚ such as when you score a goal and then usually your concentration drops. And that’s exactly what happened‚ and we paid the price for that‚ conceding a goal immediately‚ two minutes after scoring.
	
	“We tried our best. I am satisfied with the effort of the players. Unfortunately what we created did not enter [the net]‚ with hitting the bar and twice. We are fully aware and looking to correct what we need to be much better going forward. There will be much more intensity‚ and other related issues,” Micho promised. READ: Chiefs take Carling Black Label Cup in Soweto derby 
	Coaches aside, there is also plenty to prove for the players – those who have recently arrived and are still trying to establish themselves as worthy of their respective badges, and those who have been around longer and might be needing to show that they still have important roles to play.
	
	One such experienced campaigner, Siphiwe Tshabalala, has been outstanding for Amakhosi this term and the 33-year-old is set to feature in his 30th consecutive Soweto derby.
	
	Last season’s two league matches dished up 0-0 and 1-1 draws and were rather uninspiring affairs. With a lot on the line, Saturday’s match could go the same way, but will doubtless still provide an absorbing afternoon’s action in front of a nearly full house as two old foes meet for their first competitive meeting (Carling Cup aside) since March this year. African News Agency