JOHANNESBURG - With vehicle prices ever on the increase and tough economic times facing many consumers, it is very tempting to search for “easier” ways of purchasing a new vehicle than using a credit provider. Our advice is simple and firm: “Do NOT do it.” While these “easy” purchase agreements look and appear to be fair and square, they are quite often not, and will end with you either buying a vehicle illegally or with a great loss of money. Recently we were made aware of a case of a lady in Durban – we will call her Sibongile – who purchased a premium SUV through a dealership without involving a registered, reputable motor vehicle credit provider. Her credit record was unclean, which made it impossible for her to get the required finance above board without clearing her name first. After some negotiations, the dealership in question allowed Sibongile to purchase her vehicle of choice by asking her to pay a R100,000 deposit to the dealership and monthly instalments of nearly R15,000. WATCH: Tips for investing in vehicles After about two years of this agreement in place, Sibongile received the shock of her life. An agent of a reputable local motor vehicle credit provider arrived at her house and repossessed the vehicle, despite the fact that she had been paying for it diligently all this time. When she asked for an explanation, the repossession agent explained that the vehicle had been missing for about two years after it was repossessed from the original buyer – we will name him Mandla – and subsequently sold to her illegally. Unfortunately for Sibongile, according to the laws of South Africa, she has no legal recourse whatsoever, because she basically bought a “stolen” vehicle. Therefore she has lost her deposit of R100,000 and monthly payments totalling about R360,000. All that money has gone down the drain and she has nothing to show for it. There are several ways one can avoid what has happened to Sibongile. You have to empower yourself and others with some knowledge, starting right here: IN4RIDE