JOHANNESBURG - An interesting battle for the top spot in the ICC ODI team rankings could be in the offing as South Africa can displace India if they win the upcoming series against Bangladesh by a 3-0 margin. India overtook South Africa earlier this month with a 4-1 win in a home series against Australia and are one point ahead at 120 points. But South Africa will go ahead of India on decimal points with a 2-0 lead in the series and could reach 121 points with a 3-0 series win. READ: De Villiers returns for Bangladesh ODIs However, they can only remain at the top if India are unable to win the opening match of their three-match series against New Zealand which will be played the same day as the last South Africa-Bangladesh match – on October 22. If India win that match, they too will be on 121 points but ahead on decimal point calculation. However, India will have to go on to win the series against New Zealand 3-0 to retain the top spot as anything less will see South Africa regain the number one position should they win the series against Bangladesh 3-0. Meanwhile, Champions Trophy winners Pakistan will be hoping to consolidate their sixth position on the table. They presently have 95 points, nine more than their opposition, and can go up to 99 points with a 5-0 win. On the other hand, Sri Lanka have a tough task if they hope to overtake Pakistan like they did in the Test rankings during a preceding series. READ: Paterson called up to Proteas ODI squad Sri Lanka, who were the last side to ensure a direct qualification berth for the ICC Cricket World Cup 2019, will have to defeat Pakistan 5-0 to move ahead of them. In the ICC ODI player rankings, South Africa boasts four batsmen in the top 20 – AB de Villiers (third), Quinton de Kock (eighth), Faf du Plessis (ninth) and Hashim Amla (11th), while leg-spinner Imran Tahir is the top-ranked bowler with pace bowler Kagiso Rabada in third position. Bangladesh’s left-handed opener Tamim Iqbal is their leading batsman at 16th position while captain Mashrafe Mortaza (18th) and Shakib Al Hasan (20th) are the leading bowlers. For Pakistan, batsman Babar Azam (sixth) and bowlers Hasan Ali (seventh) and Imad Wasim (34th) are the leading players according to the rankings, while for Sri Lanka, Kusal Mendis (32nd) and Suranga Lakmal (39th) are the leading players, but outside the top-20. – African News Agency (ANA), Editing by Michael Sherman African News Agency