DURBAN – Kaizer Chiefs restored some of the feel-good factor to their supporters after romping to a comfortable 3-0 win over AmaZulu in a Telkom Knockout first round game at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday night.
	
	A first half goal from George Maluleka together with second half strikes by Hendrick Ekstein and Siphiwe Tshabalala powered the Soweto giants to a convincing victory over an Usuthu side who had beaten Mamelodi Sundowns earlier in the week. There were early chances for both teams as AmaZulu striker Lerato Manzini was denied by Itumeleng Khune on eight minutes before Bernard Parker had a shot blocked.
	
	Former Amakhosi marksman Mabuthi Khenyeza nearly put Usuthu ahead in the 23rd minute when he beat two defenders before dragging his shot narrowly wide of an open goal. READ: AmaZulu returns to elite league, PSL rubber stamp three club sales 
	Chiefs though were looking more dangerous in attack and they drew first blood when Maluleka’s shot from range on 31 minutes took a deflection and looped into the top corner of the net.
	
	Ekstein then wasted a great chance to add a second in the 38th minute when after a brilliant run he rounded AmaZulu keeper Boalefa Pule only to take too long to get his shot away.
	
	Amakhosi remained on top as Siyabonga Ngezana sent a header over the bar just before half time with Willard Katsande doing likewise just after the restart.
	
	And the advantage was doubled in the 55th minute when after a corner kick was cleared to Ekstein, his shot took a big deflection off a defender and crept into the net. And things got even better just three minutes later for the perennially under-pressure Chiefs coach Steve Komphela when Sipiwe Tshabalala, recalled to the national team this week for the first time since 2014, smashed home a loose ball from close range after Usuthu failed to deal with a corner.
	
	Pule then made a succession of brave stops to prevent the Glamour Boys from adding a fourth goal in a frenetic few minutes after Tshabalala had struck.
	
	From there on in it was pretty much cruise control for Chiefs as they made it a night to savour for their fans in the club’s ‘second home’ in Durban. African News Agency