PRETORIA  – The Bulls moved into Currie Cup semifinal contention in emphatic style at Loftus Versfeld in Pretoria on Friday night when they trounced the Pumas 52-32, earning a try-scoring bonus point in the process. The Bulls will know if they have done enough to sneak into the playoffs after the other two matches in the final round of the competition are played on Saturday. The Bulls started strongly but it was the Pumas that scored first, an against-the-run of play try to lock Jannie Stander off the back of a lineout drive. The Bulls replied from the kick-off, which had been lost by the Pumas, and hooker Edgar Marutulle finished an attack off in the corner. Marnitz Boshoff converted to level the scores at 7-7. Again the Pumas made good use of unexpected territory when Kobus Marais added an easy three points to his earlier conversion. And again there was swift retaliation from the home side. Prop Pierre Schoeman burst through a tackle just inside the Pumas half and offloaded neatly to scrumhalf Ivan van Zyl, who dashed to the posts. The scoring pattern continued when Marais kicked his second penalty in the 30th minute to narrow the score to 13-14, and once more the Bulls hit back with haste. This time it was a fine try by wing Travis Ismaiel after his side had taken the ball through a number of phases. The Bulls notched up their fourth in superb style when in-form fullback Warwick Gelant created the score out of nothing by nudging a grubber through the defence, collecting and sprinting to the line.
	It gave the home side a solid 26-13 halftime lead and a valuable bonus point. And from that platform, they took the game by the scruff of the neck. Just after the interval, they had their fifth when flank Marco van Staden scored, and the sixth was a beauty, coming from a kick-pass from Gelant that found Ismaiel, who passed inside for captain Burger Odendaal to finish off. The Pumas did not give up and replacement flank Francois Kleinhans scored his team’s second try before Ismaiel muscled over at the corner flag for his brace. This was quickly followed up by a JT Jackson score, with Boshoff’s sixth conversion taking the Bulls into the 50s. Pumas wing Salom Gavor added a try for the visitors, and they had the final say when Frankie Herne gave the score a degree of respectability at 52-32. Scorers: Bulls 52 (26) – Tries: Edgar Marutlulle, Ivan van Zyl, Travis Ismaiel (2), Warwick Gelant, Marco van Staden, Burger Odendaal, JT Jackson. Conversions:  Marnitz Boshoff (6). Pumas 32 (13): Tries: Jannie Stander, Francois Kleinhans, Salom Gavor, Frankie Herne. Conversions: Kobus Marias (3). Penalties: Kobus Marais (2). African News Agency