JOHANNESBURG – Polokwane City claimed a 3-2 win over hosts AmaZulu in their Premiership match at the King Zwelithini Stadium on Wednesday. Polokwane were clinical with their chances, while AmaZulu lacked any real intent on goal until the final few minutes of the clash when they stared down a less than impressive two-goal deficit. In fact, AmaZulu completely dominated the three minutes of added time – but it mattered little as it did not make up for their lack of penetration in open play for the better part of 80 minutes. Situation right now in Polokwane. Lamola teaching gk coach Milton how to do his celebration -- pic.twitter.com/214gl18KgX Coming into the game, AmaZulu were ninth and Polokwane 14th. The Polokwane outfit, in fact, had lost four of their previous matches coming into this encounter. With the win, Polokwane rose to 10th with eight points, now just behind AmaZulu in seventh on the same number of points. READ: Polokwane City shock Mamelodi Sundowns The visitors opened the scoring in the 11th minute with a sublime strike from a setpiece. Polokwane defender Ndivhuwo Ravhuhali stepped up to take a free kick just outside the AmaZulu box, and unleashed a fearsome left-footer pile-driver that struck the crossbar and deflected over the line to give his side the lead. After taking the advantage, Polokwane seemed content to sit back and defend. That strategy would prove effective as the teams headed to the interval still just one goal apart. The hosts had their chances though in the first period, as on two separate occasions Rhulani Manzini threatened the Polokwane goal from setpieces, but keeper George Chigova stood firm with a couple of good saves. With the second half in its infancy, AmaZulu defender Mbongeni Gumede went on a mesmerising run with his side pressing forward – as he left behind four Polokwane players he swerved into the box before Chigova pounced on the ball with authority to snuff out the danger. READ: Amazulu thrash league champions Wits AmaZulu, however, levelled the scores in the 53rd minute. Also from a free kick, but further out, Manzini reeled off a stunning curling strike which rocketed into the top corner of goal to make it 1-1. Polokwane though, regained the lead immediately from the restart. A dreadful piece of miscommunication in the AmaZulu defence saw keeper Butholezwe Ncube spill the ball straight into the path of the advancing Walter Musona, who obliged with the shot into an open net to restore the lead of Polokwane once more at 2-1. Polokwane sealed the match as a contest in the 86th minute, as a trademark Rodney Ramagalela run proved too much to handle for AmaZulu as he made his way into the box before calmly slotting past a helpless Ncube. Mhlengi Cele pulled a goal back for AmaZulu in the 90th minute with a sharp strike from a tight angle, but the goal did little more than provide a touch of excitement in the referee’s optional time. African News Agency