LAS VEGAS, NEVADA – It’s the biggest payout in Extreme Sports;  a cool $1 Million (R13,500,000) going to the rider who takes the chequered flag not once, not twice, but three times in all three heats of the Monster Energy Cup held at the Sam Boyd Stadium in Whitney, Las Vegas last Saturday. Riding his No. 25 KTM, Marvin Musquin the 27-year old from Aquitaine, France, stayed out of trouble at the bottle-neck curves and demonstrated superlative throttle control to time the jumps in the rhythm sections to keep in front of the field to take home the Bar.  A multi-titled World Motocross Champion, ‘Marv Attack’ has been riding motorbikes since the age of four and began competing at the age of 6 to amass the kind of experience needed to win the sports biggest payday, a feat so impressive that it hasn’t been achieved since four-time AMA Supercross champ Ryan Villopoto won big in 2011. Helped in no small way by an absent Dave Millsaps courtesy of a broken elbow and head injury, Masquin took the lead from the favourite, Eli Tomac in the first race by surprising everyone when he chose the Joker Lane on only the second lap, but soon after Tomac lost control exiting the back-end section of the stadium and fell hard forcing his retirement. Musquin won the second race by more than five seconds and took the lead in the third right out of the gate with a massive holeshot.  This year, the Joker Lane was faster which helped the front-runners establish early leads but the starting gate was a metal grate built on a split downhill start instead of a concrete one which proved a tricky getaway for some of the riders making the holeshot a far more difficult proposition. Asked at the post-race press conference what he’s going to buy his wife with the money, Musquin said: “I'll get her anything she wants! She deserves so much. We work as a team and she's behind me all the time. "oming into this, I was not thinking about winning all three motos or the money, as that's really unusual.  I just had a great start and tried to go fast, but I was just thinking about getting into the top three. At this time of the year we are only just getting back on the bikes and I have only spent the past few weeks trying to get back in to shape."  Whilst the six-figured cool million may be impressive, Musquin who now resides in Florida will hope for longevity as has receives the million dollars in the form of $50,000 annually for the next 20 years. But with a long arduous season of the AMA Motocross Championship ahead, Musquin has put his cards on the table for the rest of the riders to beat and judging by the way he played his hand in Vegas it’s going to take an Ace like Tomac to call Musquins bluff. eNCA