JOHANNESBURG – Some family members who lost loved ones in the Life Esidimeni tragedy say they want criminal charges pursued against those responsible. One-hundred-and-forty-one patients died after being transferred to unlicensed NGOs. An arbitration hearing has been taking place in Johannesburg and family members gave horrifying accounts of how their loved ones were treated in their last days. Here descriptive details of by some of the family members who were affected by the Esidimeni tragedy (warning: these descriptions contain graphic details). Boitumelo Mangena, whose mother was in the facility said, “The place was over crowded, some people were sitting on the floor, he could not recognize my mom because of the amount of weight she had lost, she was sitting in a corner shivering.” "Around 12, the nurses, came out with boxes of medication and all the patients were taking the same medication…the patients who could get themselves to where the nurses were would get the medication." “I spoke to my sister and she said come home straight after my exams, she passed away during my exams I was on my way to write the paper when I got the call.” WATCH: Esidimeni families to testify at arbitration hearings Marie Collitz, whose husband was admitted into the facility said, “We were shocked when I saw him, my eldest son jumped out the car and said what the hell is going on here…at the back of his ankles, it looks like they drag him everywhere because they can’t walk.” Boitumelo Mangena lost her mother and Marie Collitz lost her husband in the Life Esidimeni tragedy. Both died under the care of the deadliest of the unlicensed NGOs. Phumzile Motshegwa, whose brother was admitted into the facility, says she did not get to see her brother’s last days. She was taken to a butchery that was being used as a mortuary to find him. Her brother’s body was lying naked in a pile of other bodies. Phumzile had not been told that her brother had been moved from Life Esidimeni, and still cannot believe what she saw. “As black people we have ubuntu, but after what happened at Esidimeni, I can see there is no ubuntu. They took the gold out of my heart. We would like to see criminal cases being pursued", she says. The Life Esidimeni Arbitration hearing enters its third week from Monday. eNCA