JOHANNESBURG - Social media activist and Facebook sensation Louwrence van Niekerk, who goes by the moniker Joburger, has lit up social media with his 'Ask white people', 'ask coloured people' and 'ask Indian people' posts. A few days ago, Van Niekerk encouraged black people to ask white people one question they always wanted to know, on social media. READ: 'How come you can say tsunami but not Tshepo?': ask white people It quickly became an internet sensation. Van Niekerk, who aptly works for a company called Inspire 212,  said the aim was simply to try bring people together. He said he has been amazed by how his posts have been received, and he soon followed up with questions directed to the coloured and Indian communities. READ: 'Is everyone ma se kind or does ma have other kinders too?': ask coloured people Van Niekerk, who is presently working in the United Kingdom,  told eNCA that when he was still in South Africa he would see a lot of racist incidents, so "I decided to go for it."  He said he realised that the posing of the questions "could have gone horribly wrong, or (been) awesome." But posts, and the reaction to them, has been overwhelmingly positive.  READ: 'Why is everything right even if it's left?': ask Indian people "If you look at the comments, most of them are positive. I’m getting hundreds of message from people saying 'you’ve united us,' Van Niekerk said. "This has been such a rollercoaster! I've been living here for 3 months now, and I work with a bunch of people from all over the world. The people here don't care about race, colour etc... there are jokes made about it, but nobody takes offence or feels sorry for themselves. So I thought I might just try and bring some of it into South Africa. It could've gone horribly wrong, but it didn't. The outcome wasn't what I've expected at all! But it's amazing! I receive thousands of messages but I love it . I moved to London because I have an opportunity to progress." Van Niekerk said he would be returning to South Africa for a visit  'some time soon'. eNCA