EAST LONDON – South Africa lost Faf du Plessis, the skipper, through injury but crushed Bangladesh by 200 runs to complete a 3-0 sweep in the One-Day International series which ended in East London on Sunday. Du Plessis had raced to 91 off just 67 deliveries with 10 fours and a six when he sustained a lower back injury and was forced to leave the field. He will miss the two-match Twenty20 International series next week, where JP Duminy will now take over as skipper. Dwaine Pretorius has been named du Plessis’ replacement. Du Plessis had added 151 for the third wicket with Aiden Markram, the debutant, when he had to be helped off the field, just nine short of his ninth ODI century. Markram made his way to 66 off 60 deliveries with four fours and two sixes as South Africa amassed 369/6 from its 50 overs, its highest ODI total against Bangladesh as well as the highest score at Buffalo Park. READ: Proteas beat Bangladesh, again Bangladesh lost three wickets inside the first six overs and was bowled out for 169 in 40.4 overs. It was another crushing loss for Bangladesh, which was beaten by ten wickets and 104 runs respectively in the first two ODIs after also being brushed aside in the preceding two-Test series. Temba Bavuma, one of three changes in South Africa’s top seven, made 48 and helped Quinton de Kock (73) put on 119 for the first wicket in another impressive batting performance by the home side. The match was over as a contest early into the Bangladesh chase as the visitor lost its first five wickets with just 61 on the board. Shakib Al Hasan (63) and Sabbir Rahman (39) delayed the inevitable by adding 67 for the sixth wicket before both were dismissed by the part-time off-spin of Markram. Dane Paterson, the fast bowler, was South Africa’s most successful bowler with 3/44. While du Plessis was named the Player of the Match, de Kock won the Player of the Series honours after piling up 287 runs. The tour now heads to Bloemfontein for the first T20I on Thursday, and will wind down with the second game in Potchefstroom next Sunday. African News Agency