Editor's note: This live event has ended. You may watch a recording above. MIDDLEBURG - The two men convicted of forcing Victor Mlotshwa into a coffin, Willem Oosthuizen and Theo Jackson, were sentenced to 11 and 14 years imprisonment respectively on Friday. Judge Sheila Mphahlele refused to grant the accused leave to appeal their sentence, saying she did not beleive they had any prospect of success. Among the sentences passed by the judge were three years for grevious bodily harm, to five years for kidnapping, seven years for attempted murder, six years for intimidation and three years for defeating the ends of justice. Judge Sheila Mphahlele found that mitigating circumstances were far outweighed by the seriousness of the accused's actions.  She said they only showed remorse during mitigation and aggravation of sentence, and their conduct was appalling and dehumanising. Oosthuizen and Jackson called Mlotshwa the K-word, while assaulting him, and later forced him into a coffin. Judge Mphahlele said their conduct showed that a lot still needs to be done by the state and courts to ensure that the bill of rights is upheld. #CoffinAssault
		
		Sentencing proceedings scheduled for today.
		
		Anything else than 15yrs will be laughable pic.twitter.com/AcoWftoC4y The two farmers had earlier been found guilty of attempted murder, assault, kidnapping and defeating the ends of justice.  They were arrested after a video, in which they are seen forcing Mlotshwa into a coffin and threatening to set him alight, went viral on social media, sparking widespread outrage.  READ: Coffin accused not remorseful: state Earlier in the week, the state prosecutor argued the duo only expressed regret for their actions because they face prison time.  The prosecutor also said that a lenient sentence would divide society. There have been widespread calls from community members and political parties for the judge to show no mercy.  The scene outside the Middelburg Magistrate's Court ahead of this morning's #CoffinAssault sentencing. @malungelob has the latest. #DStv 403 pic.twitter.com/YTXyRJV7Yj Mlotshwa had asked the High Court sitting in Middelburg to give Oosthuizen and Jackson a 15-year prison sentence. Their bail has been revoked. eNCA