JOHANNESBURG - Higher oil prices and refining margins boosted third-quarter earnings at ExxonMobil and Chevron, more than offsetting the hit to operations from US hurricanes, the companies reported on Friday. Better earnings for both of the top two US oil giants reflected the lift from moderately higher commodity prices during the quarter and came despite losses for both companies in the US exploration and production business. US oil futures prices ranged from about $46 to $52 per barrel during the quarter, up about $4 from the year-ago period. READ: ExxonMobil deceived public about climate change: study ExxonMobil and Chevron enjoyed higher profits in the downstream division, which is responsible for refining crude oil into gasoline and other petroleum products. This included gains in the US, where the effect of temporary closures of refineries by ExxonMobil and others resulted in higher gasoline prices, lifting refining margins. ExxonMobil reported earnings of $4-billion (R56.5-million), up 49.8 percent from the same period last year.  US hurricanes resulted in a hit of $160-million. Revenues were $66.2-billion, up 12.8 percent. "A 50 percent increase in earnings through solid business performance and higher commodity prices is a step forward in our plan to grow profitability," said ExxonMobil chief executive Darren Woods. "For the fourth consecutive quarter, we generated cash flow from operations and asset sales that more than covered our dividends and net investments in the business." Chevron reported a 52.1 percent increase in earnings to $2.0 billion. Revenues rose 16.2 percent to $36.2 billion. "We continue to see improvement in the underlying pattern of earnings and cash flow," said Chevron CEO John Watson. "Cash flow is at a positive inflection point, with oil and gas production increasing and capital spending falling." Chevron announced last month that Watson would retire in February, to be replaced by longtime company executive Mike Wirth.  Shares of ExxonMobil rose 0.5 percent in pre-market trading to $83.47, while Chevron fell 1.8 percent to $116.36. AFP