On Saturday 4 November Carnival City plays host to a veritable United Nations of a main card at EFC 65 with two Brits, one Scot, a German and a Brazilian filling out the five prime-time slots on a cracking index of intent bolstered by a superlative undercard bursting with star power. Traditionally one of the most popular MMA weight categories, the light-heavyweight division leads the charge with Dalcha Lungiambula (7-1-0) defending his belt for the second time, in this instance against Stuart Austin (12-3-0). It’s a fascinating match-up because the technically superior Brit  -- who last graced our shores at heavyweight with a decision win against Elvis Moyo at Sun City in July  -- now returns at his most natural weight class with such a well-rounded skill set; six of his victories coming from knock-out, four by submission and just two decisions. The Congolese judoka who boasts several outstanding Goshi throws, a massive overhand right and outlandish strength might look to brawl as he did so successfully and curtly against Baudot (also at EFC 61 in Sun City). But if the Brit can master the distance on the feet as he did so successfully against the Bulawayo Bomber, we may see a change in title ownership. The naysayers may point out the champion’s stifling top-game, but frankly I don’t see his jits in the same league as Austin, who’s a lot more creative and fluid with his submissions. The only way I see Lungiambula emerging victorious is by virtue of his ridiculous power, but if that is not enough on the night, it does beg the question of a failed nominative determinism (note my avoidance of the Champion Champion trap). The co-main event sees the long overdue return of the true gentleman of African MMA, Boyd Allen (14-3-1), in an interesting quirk of matchmaking fate, taking on Callum Murrie (3-0-0), the sparring partner of a certain Danny Henry who famously alleviated Allen of his featherweight title more than two years ago. Don’t let Murrie’s lower-value digits fool you; his prodigious amateur career resembles a jiu-jitsu bucket list with two triangles, a D’Arce and a Keylock. He repeated his Brabo choke twice in his pro-career, most notably in his ACB debut against Jack Holt, and comes into this bout undefeated. Allen has nothing left to prove on the mat, with submission victories over Hawkey (twice), Groth, Nienaber, Botha (Hanru), Kanyeba, Hlatshwayo and Iakobidze. But it’s on the feet that the Scot needs to be aware. Allen's last two wins were a masterclass of angles and movement despatching both Mynhardt and Thomas with the most delicious pugilism in the history of the EFC. No doubt the Dinky Ninja has been prepped as much as possible by Danny Henry but as we’ve seen time and time again, game plans and guts defenestrate when you’re faced with old flat top. I’m very excited to see the Scouser Gavin Hughes (8-0-0) make his EFC debut against Deon Bruning (4-0-1) from PFA mainly because both lads are undefeated in both their amateur and professional careers. Hughes has a lot of bouts in Shinobi, ICE, Tanko and ACB so is no stranger to the bright lights of the big show. His eight victories share spoils twixt four KOs and four guillotines, the latter of which would be a highly impressive feat of continuance if he can pull one off against a man of outstanding submission grappling ability like Bruning. The Cape-Town based "Bonzai" also fought in a lot of UK promotions, and often shared cards with Hughes where both were victorious. What’s interesting about his scrap is that it’s for number one contender status in the lightweight division and should Bruning emerge the winner, he will face former PFA star and stablemate Don Madge. I can exclusively reveal that the preceding fight is between the highly talented and eminently likeable Bokang Masunyane (3-0-0) and Magno Alves (4-5-0). We’ve been waiting quite a while for the return of the Carioca, who lost his EFC debut over a year ago in a highly competitive affair against Gareth Buirski but has since returned to winning ways back in Rio de Janeiro with a first-round stoppage against Arnaldo França. It’s a tough ask for the Team Nogueira product, especially flying out from Brazil on short notice since he accepted the fight only at the time of writing, even more so since it’s against an undefeated master grappler with takedowns for days like Masunyane. I still remember "Little Giants" debut at EFC 56 here in Johannesburg when he shot across the Hexagon in the blink of an eye and upended his opponent, Musaddiq Alli Hasan, with a salmon leaping double leg. Never before have I witnessed a Carnival City roar for an evening’s first prelim as that emitted by the crowd that late balmy spring evening last year. It’s a great international test for FFM’s rising star and a fantastic opportunity for Alves. Massive respect to both athletes for agreeing to a fight that may set the tenor for the remainder of the main card. The first bout of this is a heavyweight war between aforementioned Moyo (7-5-0) and an equally humungous German, Ugur Ozkaplan (3-0-0). The man from Düsseldorf who hails from UFD, the same gym as The Fighter cast member Max Merten. has the US Marine Corps’ motto "Semper Fidelis" emblazoned across his chest and will definitely be forced to improvise, adapt and overcome against a knock-out artist with an ever-improving ground game like the Bulawayo Bomber. Moyo will be hoping to return to the win column following his loss to Austin but continues to benefit from the experience of his team at Tapout Academy. On any given day no one in the EFC hits as hard as Moyo and The Maslow that Ozkaplan will be calling home during his Jozi sojourn might just turn out to be a heartbreak hotel for the Westphalian. As is often the case these days with the talent-rich roster in the EFC there are a number of stunning prelim bouts to merit an early Saturday drive out to the East Rand. Faeez Jacobs (2-1-0) and Oumpie Sebeko (4-4-0) look to engage with both fighters perennially walking the talk. Roderique Kena (1-1-0) welcomes the returning Luke Michael (2-3-0), who’s upped sticks from the Mother City to join FFM, and it’ll be fascinating to see if some Sunninghill improvements bring the promising grappler his first win in three years. The highly entertaining Sibusiso Mdoko (5-6-0) will hope to prove to everyone that he’s still got a chin when he faces lutteur par excellence Pierre Botha (7-5-1), who’s coming off a lost title-shot against Kabesa. Plenty at stake then for the warriors of early doors so I beseech all fight fans to give these men your fullest support and extract maximum value from your ticket and go and enjoy the best combat action on the continent of Africa. EFC 65 takes place on Saturday 4 November at Carnival City in Johannesburg. The first bout starts at 5.45pm and the main card at 9pm. Tickets are available at Computicket and the main card is available on SABC3 from 9pm. See you there.