CAPE TOWN - SuperSport United players will have last season’s Telkom Knockout final defeat to Cape Town City in mind when the two sides meet in the 2017 MTN8 final at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday night.
	
	The Cape outfit, under the guidance of now-SuperSport United head coach Eric Tinkler, beat Matsatsantsa 2-1 to claim the 2016 Telkom Knockout; earning their first piece of silverware in their first season since formation. Just under a year later and the two sides will slug it out again, this time in the winner-takes-all-R8 million top eight competition. With both sides possessing an array of potential match-winners, the showdown in KZN has the makings of a thriller. READ: SuperSport dump luckless Chiefs out of MTN 8 
	Neither club has made wholesale changes to the teams which battled it out at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in last season’s TKO final, and amongst those who were on the losing side last December, is SuperSport midfielder Dean Furman. The Bafana Bafana anchor-man admits there will be an element of revenge at play.
	
	“We’ve now got ourselves to the final and, I wouldn’t say ‘revenge’ is the right word but, last year’s Telkom Knockout defeat is still fresh in our memories, I’m sure the coach (Eric Tinkler) will know. But we haven’t forgotten that, and it was one that hurt us, so we need to put that right come Saturday evening,” Furman was quoted saying by KickOff.
	
	Tinkler, meanwhile, claims that going up against his former club and facing the players he so recently mentored won’t affect anything.   
	“There is no sentiment because if you are a professional‚ you move on,” he said. “It is about SuperSport United and winning things for them now. We are going there with the attitude and mentality that we want to win‚ and if that happens we will celebrate with humility. At the end of the match we will still be friends regardless of what happened.”
	
	A case could be made that the Pretoria outfit has a stronger squad than Cape Town City; SuperSport certainly do have an array of deadly attacking talent including Jeremy Brockie, Thuso Phala, Thabo Mnyamane, Bradley Grobler and Reneilwe Letsholonyane. 
	And Tinkler hinted that was one of the factors he looked at when deciding to leave the Citizens after just one season in charge: “Stuart Baxter left a very good foundation here at SuperSport United and that is one of the main reasons why I chose to come here – because of the quality of personnel at the club‚” he said. READ: Cape Town City book MTN 8 final berth The final in Durban gives Cape Town City coach Benni McCarthy the perfect opportunity to show he has taken the club to the next level when his side faces a SuperSport United team coached by Eric Tinkler, the man who set the Citizens on their rapid upward trajectory.
	
	Tinkler was named as City’s first-ever head coach after the Cape team purchased the Mpumalanga Black Aces franchise and moved to the Mother City in the middle of 2016.
	
	And the former Orlando Pirates head coach didn’t disappoint, his calm and measured approach turning what seemed a decent, yet not overwhelmingly good squad, into a formidable unit which went on to win the Telkom Knockout competition before claiming a third-place finish in the league.
	
	Tinkler, somewhat surprisingly, left after only one season after seemingly being tempted by SuperSport’s offer to move closer to home in Gauteng. But it is effectively his legacy – a top eight finish – that has enabled McCarthy to have a crack at a first managerial trophy just months into his first stint as a head coach.  
	To be fair to the new man, a UEFA Champions League winner and one of South Africa’s best-ever strikers, he’s brought his own style of play to the team. His mouth may get the better of him on occasion but the fact of the matter is that the Cape side have enjoyed a very promising start to the season, McCarthy’s winning mentality clearly rubbing off on the playing staff.
	
	“We are starting to have that winning mentality. You can see the fight out there. When I was a player I was a winner. These guys have a never-say-die attitude and we are empowering that attitude with every game,” the 39-year-old commented a bit earlier this season.
	
	“I always say a team is a reflection of its manager. I’m a passionate guy from Cape Town, and if people want to bully my players, I’m the first one to stand up for them,” the former Porto and West Ham said recently after he was caught on camera swearing at an Ajax Cape Town player during a fiery local derby. African News Agency