JOHANNESBURG - However tempting it may seem to move up the batting order, Proteas kingpin David Miller is quite content to bat wherever his team requires in the future. Batting at five in the order, the 28-year-old left-hander clubbed the fastest century in the history of T20 cricket off just 35 balls to set the hosts up for a crushing 83-run victory in the final match of the Bangladesh tour at Senwes Park on Sunday. The victory ensured the Proteas a 2-0 victory in the T20 Series and a clean sweep across all three formats. READ: SA continue dominance over Bangladeshi Tigers “Domestically I have moved up the order and internationally I would also love to be higher up,” Miller pointed out. “We have some world class batters that take up the top four, so I respect that – that is what it is.” he added. “We will see where it goes, but at the moment I just want to take each opportunity as it comes, wherever I might be or whatever the team requires of me at the time.” Miller heaped praise on his batting partner Hashim Amla, whose sublime batting form against the Tigers continued with a knock of 85 off 51 balls. READ: Proteas beat Bangladesh, again “I had some great support from Hash (Amla) who has been doing really well as always and then Fudgie (Farhaan Behardien) at the back end that supported me, but it was really a team effort at the end of the day,” added Miller. As for the record – “I was really stoked to get the record. It’s not something you wake up and dream about every day. It’s a knock that doesn’t come around too often, so when it does it’s really enjoyable.” Miller thrilled the sizeable Potchefstroom crowd at the home of North West Cricket with an array of shots – orthodox and unorthodox – that underlined his immense batting talent. “Personally, I really enjoyed playing some shots there. A lot of the time I do practice those shots, but a lot of the time it just comes instinctively and I just go with the flow.” “The crowd adds to the adrenaline that’s going – you know your heart doesn’t stop beating – and it’s really nice to have a packed house like this. Day games are always good here.” African News Agency