NAIROBI - Kenya's Supreme Court said on Tuesday it would meet on the eve of the presidential election rerun to hear a last-minute petition challenging the ballot. Chief Justice David Maraga, who presided over the annulling of the original flawed August vote, said he would hear a petition filed by human rights activists arguing that Kenya is not ready for Thursday's rerun. READ: All systems go for Kenya elections: electoral commission "Matter to be heard at 10am (07:00 GMT) tomorrow [Wednesday]," Maraga ordered in a statement. He said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) as well as "all the presidential candidates" must submit written submissions before the hearing. Kenya's disputed presidential poll has been beset by legal challenges, including one brought by opposition leader Raila Odinga that led to the Supreme Court overturning President Uhuru Kenyatta's victory on 1 September and ordering a rerun within 60 days. The Supreme Court's decision to hear this latest petition, filed on Sunday, raises the possibility that Thursday's election might be postponed. "We are hoping they will cancel elections on 26 October," said activist Khelef Khalifa of Muslims for Human Rights. He filed the petition alongside Samwel Mohochi of the Kenya branch of the International Commission of Jurists and Gacheke Gachihi -- also known as Nahashon Kamau -- of the Mathare Social Justice Centre in Nairobi. The petitioners cite several arguments for delaying the vote. These include Odinga's withdrawal from the rerun two weeks ago, which they say means the vote must be cancelled, and the IEBC chairman's admission last week that "a free, fair and credible election" could not be guaranteed as the constitution demands. They argue that a delay of up to 90 days should be ordered by the Supreme Court. The opposition, as well as some analysts, have also called for a delay, but Kenyatta has insisted the vote should go ahead as planned despite Odinga's boycott and ongoing protests. AFP