JOHANNESBURG - Zweli Mkhize said that he believes "there are a lot of people in the ANC who are very good leaders and can restore its values". Speaking to eNCA's Dan Moyane, Mkhize said that much of the criticism of the party was internal and "members of the ANC are the main drivers who would like to see (a correction) happen". "Practically, members want us to stop division, infighting and factionalism. They want us to fight corruption in government and the private sector," he said. READ: Ramaphosa warns greedy leaders, says he's ready for December Mkhize affirmed his belief that the ANC had to work as "a collective of leadership" and the party was filled with "honest people who areprepared to serve and are not driven by greed (or) self-interest." Regarding the leadership of President Zuma, he said that "any leader will at some time be criticised." But he pointed out that he was not a Zuma man, but had "been persuaded (to stand in the leadership race) by a number of leaders who've been concerned about the challenges we face."  "We've been asked by branches to make ourselves available and we do so at the behest of the branches," he said. "We are always ready to serve, and we certainly feel humbled, and we accept what the membership wants us to do."  Mkhize said that corruption within the party could be countered because "there are enough people who are prepared to work together to deal with the issue of greed." He said he hoped to align the ANC programs and government so that they could complement one another. READ: ANC allocates delegate numbers for elective conference Mkhize voiced his belief that to revive itself, the party needed to move away from slate politics. "Unity is about saying lets bring the best of talent together. We need to avoid slate politics where we omit leaders because they're on the wrong slate. We've spent too long factionalising the ANC. We need to pull everyone together to bring a solution where we bring a broad leadership and avoid issues where people are on the wrong slate," he said. We need to call the leadership and get to the bottom of issues that divide us (SACP) We need to see how much is linked to divisions, to procurement irregularities, strengthen leadership and ensure there's political consciousness. Mkhize ended by affriming " the ANC is not about your past, its about your future." eNCA