JOHANNESBURG - Volkswagen has introduced a new performance variant to its range: the new Golf R. Vrrrrrrrr pha to the next level? Absolutely. While the Volkswagen Golf GTI is regarded as the original vrrrrrrrr pha, its bigger brother the Golf R is simply about adding more spice into that pot. The current success of the Golf GTI can be attributed to the Golf GTI Mk5 or Golf 5 GTI, which really rejuvenated the brand and revolutionised its segment. Successors have “merely” built on that, and the Golf R is the epitome of that build. What makes it special? For one it is based on the GTI but has a number of added features and advantages that the GTI simply cannot match. For one, it has 4Motion all-wheel-drive (AWD), which is necessary for exceptional grip and improving handling, especially for someone who is not performance-trained and experienced. Essentially, the average Joe can drive this car and feel like a pro drifter. The other thing, of course, is the practicality. This is still a Golf by all accounts: four entry doors, a hatch boot, sitting space for five, leather interior, and alles. Yet… Yet? Yet, put it into the right frame of mind and it turns into something different, something quite Hulk-like. With the facelift, Volkswagen included the Sport HMI feature that allows for different suspension and response settings. On Race mode, it stiffens up quite nicely and raises the rev bar for easier access to the power band. Simultaneously, the four exhaust tailpipes go deeper. Once you launch (completely switch off traction, press Race, get on the brake, rev as high as possible, let go of the brake and hold on), the 235/35 R19 tyres stay glued to the surface and take you quickly to whatever speed you desire under 250km/h, with slight neck-snaps through the extra swift gear changes while the sports seats keep you tightly held. It’s a sensational performance that will shame many a more powerful and focused sports car. That you can do this time and time again on the road to the school run is testament to the Golf R’s talent. Interesting features Besides the new front face with LED headlights, bumper, side mirrors and new exhaust tailpipes, our interest was piqued by the interior. The new multicolour digital cockpit features the different profiles, and the infotainment system is touch screen enabled, with touchless swiping that lets you adjust a few things just by swooshing your hand over the screen. The system can play USB memory sticks (as long as they are not high capacity), auxiliary systems or the good old radio with station display and RDS. You can also download your music into the car’s 30GB hard drive. The 8-speaker Dynaudio Excite sound system churns out 400W of power and combined with crystal clarity, makes it one of the best factory auto sound systems around. Verdict? Although power is marginally higher, the facelift Golf R feels slightly quicker and our test results prove this. The old car was, admittedly, a bit harder, while this one is gentler, more everyday. One could say this is the best combination of performance sports car and everyday hatch that money can buy today, at the price. QUICK STATS ENGINE: 2.0-litre turbo POWER (engine): 213kW / 290 PS between 5,400 and 6,500rpm TORQUE: 380Nm between 1,850 and 5,300rpm 0 – 100km/h: 4.9 seconds GEARBOX: 7-speed automatic (DSG), all-wheel-drive (AWD) TOP SPEED: 250km/h FUEL AVERAGE:  9.8 l/100km CO2 e: 163 g/km PRICE STANDARD: R657,000 NATURAL RIVALS: Audi S3 Sportback, BMW M140i, Ford Focus RS, Honda Civic Type R PRICE RIVALS: Audi A5 Sportback 2.0 TDI, BMW 230i Convertible, Fiat Abarth 124 Spider IN4RIDE