JOHANNESBURG - Photographer and plus-size blogger Lesego ‘Thick Leeyonce’ Legobane walked her first runway show for Woolworths at the South African Fashion Week on Tuesday. Listen @ThickLeeyonce just rocked the runway!! Yasss Kween!! #SAFW pic.twitter.com/SA2mlCb8n4 While some celebrated Legobane's achievement, she was also inundated with negative comments referring to her body size. She responded to the fat-shaming comments with an Instagram post showing screenshots of fat-shaming tweets and captioned the post saying, "The love is REAL! I feel it & I am ALWAYS grateful. ‬ ‪Oh but the hatred? The cruelty? The malicious comments I hv (sic) to deal with? EVERYDAY? Most days its whatever...but yesterday I read & read & read & read until I was numb & cudnt (sic) feel anything anymore." ‪Yesterday ws probably 1 of the best days of my life, but I ended up going to bed very sad.‬ ‪I genuinely don't give a fuck wat ANYONE thinks of me. Zero fucks, but u know what? I ws really sad. I was so anxious abt walking in a fashion show with models who hv years of experience & who are a lot smaller dan me, I ws skeptical but my mum said "Do it 4 the next big girl who wants to be a model but thinks it's impossible" & so I dd it. ‬ ‪My moment came & the minute I stepped out all I heard ws "Leeyonce! Yaaaas! Thick lee" I look up, there are ppl screaming 4 ME! I ddnt expect any of this cos my mum nor Lerato were there (they are normally the ones who scream 4 me lol) so I lost my cool, & got so overwhelmed by the love lol I just couldn't help but smile cos wow! The love is REAL! I feel it & I am ALWAYS grateful. ‬ ‪Oh but the hatred? The cruelty? The malicious comments I hv to deal with? EVERYDAY? Most days its whatever...but yesterday I read & read & read & read until I was numb & cudnt feel anything anymore. Its been 4 years, FOUR YEARS of online abuse & cyber bullying bt yesterday? I got really sad. ‬ ‪"Don't entertain it"‬ ‪"U like playing victim"‬ ‪"Be strong, don't mind them"‬ ‪"Don't let them get you down"‬ ‪"Haters girl, u know how they are"‬ ‪"Just ignore it"‬ ‪"U talk too much abt body positivity, ur annoying"‬ ‪"Ur self love is fake cos u always entertain haters, u really insecure"‬ ‪I've heard this 4 FOUR YEARS. Imagine havin to deal with bullies 4 years & ppl tellin u "dnt mind em" ‬ ‪Thr are days whr ppl pop up on my TL callin me terrible things, I read, block & carry on with life...evn wen it upsets me, I cnt talk abt it cos the minute I address it, "I am entertaining haters, I like attention" (thr are ppl who believe dat this is wat I want, dat I like it wen ppl say these things abt me cos "I get to play victim" imagine that. ‬ ‪Im tired of hearing "ignore them" bcos I am expected 2 b "OK" with this. This is not OK. Dnt tel me nt 2 mind dis, cz I do.‬ ‪Read al of these, its nt evn a quarter of wat I read last night or wat Iv read all my life since joining SM, it's just a glimpse, read & tell me I sud just turn a blind eye A post shared by fat gal (@thickleeyonce) on Legobane also tweeted her frustratio, saying she's not able to speak up for herself because of backlash. "There are times when it upsets me but I can't retweet or call my best friend cos "here we go again", so I let it go." On the days I do feel "enough is enough, I'm standing up for myself" I got told I like being a victim and that I enjoy this shit I pray God dis is d last time I hv to deal wit this. Cz I am tired. Cn I just b fat in peace? Cn I wear my crops without being called a cow? Legobane majored in politics at Wits University and has embraced every inch of her curves by advocating for 'fat positivity'. eNCA