JOHANNESBURG - The unavailability of Jan Serfontein for the Springboks’ end-of-year tour has left the national team short of specialist options at inside centre. In a surprise revelation from Sunday’s Springbok squad announcement for the upcoming four-Test tour, it was confirmed that Serfontein had asked not to be considered for the tour as he looks to settle in at Montpellier after recently joining the French club. READ: Boks call up new blood for Europe tour With Sefontein having now featured in 35 Tests for the Boks, he does meet the recently-introduced 30-cap eligibility ruling for overseas-based players, but the talented 24-year-old will not be available for the Springboks until next year. This leaves Damian de Allende as the only specialist inside centre in the 34-man squad, with Jesse Kriel, Lukhanyo Am and Francois Venter all more recognised as outside centres. Although Am has featured at inside centre for the Sharks, the fact remains that he is yet to feature for the Boks, and it would be a big call for him to earn his first Test cap in his less-favoured position. In all likelihood, it means De Allende will be reinstated at No 12 when the Boks take on Ireland in the first end-of-year Test on November 11, although it will be interesting to see whether Handre Pollard may be considered in that position. READ: FlashBack: Bok brilliance at RWC 2007 Besides Serfontein’s absence, there were few other major surprises in the Bok squad, but there are a few players who can feel rather unfortunate to have missed out. In particular, Western Province flyhalf Robert du Preez and Nizaam Carr – who both starred in Saturday’s final – would certainly have not been out of place in the Bok squad. Du Preez has found some fantastic form towards the end of the domestic season, and appears to be well-suited to the sort of percentage play that will be so important in northern hemisphere conditions. Meanwhile, Carr has begun to play some of his best rugby at No 8 during the latter stages of the Currie Cup, and in the continued absence of Warren Whiteley, the 26-year-old would have been a worthy recipient of a Test call-up. Carr could receive a late lifeline if Sharks loose-forward Jean-Luc du Preez is ruled out of the tour after undergoing scans for an ankle injury on Monday, although it’s believed that Kwagga Smith is the replacement flanker on stand-by. Other players who must be regarded as unlucky to have missed out include the Cheetahs’ try-scoring machine Makazole Mapimpi, WP star Damian Willemse, and Lions centres Rohan Janse van Rensburg and Harold Vorster. African News Agency