JOHANNESBURG – In a suprise move, The Presidency announced on Tuesday morning that President Jacob Zuma had reshuffled his cabinet for the second time this year. In March, Zuma fired Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas, sparking outrage and sending the currency plummeting.  READ: President Jacob Zuma reshuffles his cabinet Meet the new ministers, below.  Higher Education: Hlengiwe Mkhize  Hlengiwe Mkhize, who previously served as the Minister of Home Affairs, replaces Blade Nzimande. As Home Affairs Minister, Mkhize strongly defended the controversial Gupta family's citizenship, saying she would not revoke their South African citizenship should they relocate to Dubai. She claims she wants the family's dignity respected. Mkhize has also been criticised for suspending the Home Affairs Director General, Mkuseli Apleni, without giving any reasons. She has served as a Member of Parliament since 2009. Home Affairs: Ayanda Dlodlo  Ayanda Dlodlo was appointed as the Minister of Communication in the March cabinet reshuffle, now moves to Home Affairs.  She is a member of the ANC National Executive Committee and a Member of Parliament, and served as an adviser to President Jacob Zuma from 2009 to 2010. Dlodlo's faced criticism during her stint as communications minister, after delays in the appointment of a new SABC board. She and President Jacob Zuma have come under fire with critics suggesting the delay is deliberate and meant to facilitate the appointment of Zuma's preferred candidates to key positions at the public broadcaster, without the input of board members. Communications: Mmamoloko Kubayi  Mmamoloko Kubayi moves from the Ministry of Energy to Communications.  Before serving in the National Executive she was the Chairperson of the Portfolio Committee of Telecommunications and Postal Services. Energy: David Mahlobo  Former State Security Minister David Mahlobo is now the Minister of Energy. The controversial minister has come under fire over recent months for admitting that state security knew about the ongoing violent protests over demarcation in Vuwani, but failed to act appropriately. He also came under fire for his alleged link with a rhino poacher. State Security: Bongani Bongo  The relatively unknown Bongani Bongo is from Mpumalanga and has been an ANC member of parliament since 2014. Bongo has no previous executive experience. While in parliament, he served on various committees, including the one tasked with nominating a new public protector in 2016. Higher Education: Buti Manamela  Buti Manamela has been the Deputy Minister for Planning and Monitoring in the Presidency since 2014. He will now serve as the deputy Minister of Higher Education and Training. He is the national secretary of the Young Communist League. eNCA