JOHANNESBURG – Former minister of higher education Blade Nzimande said he feels personally betrayed by President Jacob Zuma’s actions. Speaking on the Karima Brown Show on 702 on Monday evening, the South African Communist Party (SACP) leader said he hoped Zuma would be a non-factor post December. Last week Tuesday, Nzimande was axed by the president from the ANC's National Executive Committee. The SACP has been a vocal critic of Zuma’s administration, calling for his removal from office for over a year. With the ANC set to hold its national conference at the end of the year, Nzimande hopes the new ANC leadership will recall Zuma from the Union Buildings. “President Zuma is going, he is going to be a non-factor after December,” said Nzimande. “Well if he continues being head of state and well if the ANC doesn’t recall him as we have been calling for that, of course he is going to be a factor.” READ: Zuma's state capture application The tripartite alliance between the ANC, Cosatu and the SACP is at its lowest in post democratic South Africa. Nzimande acknowledged past differences with former presidents Nelson Mandela and Thabo Mbeki but says Zuma is trying to provoke the SACP in order to destroy the tripartite alliance. The SACP leader has already set his sight on the post Zuma regime in the ANC and hopes that the party’s national conference will elect honest and credible leaders. “We still believe that as the SACP there are enough leaders and members of the ANC who would like to strengthen the alliance,” he said. “We still believe that there enough leaders and members in the ANC who see the importance of these partners coming together to pursue the interests of the working class and the poor in this country.” The SACP and Nzimande were staunch Zuma loyalists before he ascended to the highest office in the land but Nzimande has now expressed regret for supporting Zuma. “Had we known what is it that we are actually supporting, given the outrageous capture of our country by the Guptas, we would not have supported President Zuma because our deal with him was to actually lead the process of sorting out things that were wrong in the ANC,” Nzimande said. READ: Zuma confidante says Ramaphosa next to go Nzimande counts the establishments of universities in Mpumalanga and the Northern Cape and the expansion of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) budget from under R3-billion to R15-billion among his achievements in his eight year stint in the higher education ministry. However in the spring of 2015, nationwide tertiary student protests flared up and threatened to cripple South Africa’s higher education department when students called for free tertiary education. Nzimande has reiterated that those who can afford should not be in the same bracket as poor students and the “missing middle”. “As a communist don’t believe that we should fund those who can afford and the students of the rich, that is un-Marxist from my point of view,” said he said. “Even [Karl] Marx by the way criticises this idea in the 1870s of free higher education for everybody. That in essence, you are actually robbing the poor to pay the rich. “I think I did my best in terms of actually doing that and my legacy, historically scrutinised will actually show for that.” Nzimande said his sacking points to all that is wrong in the alliance. He said: “Nowhere else in the work would you get a leader of allied partner sacking the leader of the other.” eNCA