JOHANNESBURG - Bafana Bafana striker Lebohang Manyama has made a call for the fans to come out in numbers when they play Burkina Faso in a 2018 World Cup qualifier at the FNB Stadium on Saturday (start 3pm). The Turkey-based player says with the backing of the fans, the players can turn things around following a series of disappointing results. Manyama, along with Azerbaijan-based striker, Dino Ndlovu, were the last players to report for national team duty. READ: Bafana Bafana, Senegal replay on November 10 The former Cape Town City captain who settled down with his new club in Turkey said there are tough challenges facing Bafana in the World Cup qualifiers. With three matches remaining in the qualifiers, Bafana are bottom of Group D with just one point. When asked about his experience in Turkey, Manyama said: “So far so good, different level, they are more aggressive that side and it’s a league with a whole lot of technical players. I think I have adjusted very well, just trying to hit form as soon as possible. “The move from Cape Town City to Konyaspor was a dream come true. I wanted to go test myself in Europe and luckily I went to a team that is more or less like Cape Town City, family-wise. “Everybody was welcoming, it’s just a matter of me putting in good performances week in and week out and things will get better from there. “The level of professionalism is very high, players are more focused on being very good at playing the ball technically, the pace is not the same as we have in South Africa and teams don’t go pound for pound – it’s more tactical, you have to know where to be at the right time. It has been a very good adjustment and I still have a lot to learn.” READ: Bafana Bafana World Cup hopes battered by Blue Sharks Manyama was asked if Konyaspor was a step to even better leagues around the world. “You never know what might happen in football. I always take it one game at a time and I never really think much about what is going to happen next year. The important thing is what is happening today for me.” Questioned about his new team-mates and whether they are helping him improve he replied: “When you are new at a place you have to learn how everybody operates and how the team operates. “To be quite honest it has been a bit difficult because I am in a new environment and the players don’t have that much trust in me as I had at Cape Town City – but it’s understandable because they don’t know what I can do. “This is also a challenge for me to show them what I am capable of, and it’s a matter of building confidence one day at a time, and as time goes on, things will get better.” READ: Mathoho suspended for World Cup qualifier Finally, he talked about the difficult match this weekend against Burkina Faso. “To be quite honest we are in trouble. We put ourselves in there and we are the only ones who can take ourselves out. It’s up to us to get a good result on Saturday before we can think of anything else. “We know it’s not going to be easy, but I think we have a lot of quality in the side. It’s a matter of doing what the coach wants – it has worked before so why can’t it work on Saturday?” Listen: Itumeleng Khune urges you to #ComeShowYourLove for Bafana Bafana https://t.co/9Ya0Ytoeyc pic.twitter.com/cddJFVpUdW African News Agency