PRETORIA – Gauteng Premier David Makhura says the radical economic transformation agenda being advanced by the government is not about threatening and intimidating big businesses. “We need commercial farmers, we need organisations, and we need agri-business to walk this journey with us, the journey of transformation," Maklhura said on Friday. "As a province, we believe firmly in partnerships. I am able to explain radical economic transformation to business people, including global business people, without them feeling threatened. “I am able to do that. We have signed agreements with major corporations, some with sectors that actually say they love radical economic transformation. It doesn’t threaten them if you explain it well. The idea is not to scare people. If your policies scare people, then there is something wrong with how you have explained that policy.” READ: The phony radical transformation debate Makhura was addressing hundreds of delegates, mainly farmers, at the inaugural Gauteng Agri-Food Festival at the Tshwane Showgrounds in Pretoria. The premier appealed to established farmers and big businesses to support emerging black farmers and women who have previously been marginalised from the mainstream economy. “In your own value chains on the way, we want to see black farmers, we want to see women farmers emerging there. By the way, that is what we mean by radical economic transformation. We don’t want to chase you out of the country. We want you to use your scale, your experience to help us change the face of agriculture in our country so that it is inclusive,” said Makhura. “They cannot be emerging farmers forever. We need to see established African farmers really playing on that big scale.” Makhura urged farmers and other producers to “have a conscience” as many impoverished South Africans could not afford adequate food. “As farmers you must declare that it is unacceptable that there are people who have nothing to eat. How else are you going to make money? A farmer who lacks conscience, who cannot feel the pains of hunger, when you are the producers of food? A farmer needs consciousness. Food insecurity is something we must face, we must tackle,” he said. African News Agency