PRETORIA - The South African government on Tuesday warned of high numbers of malaria cases being reported in areas of Limpopo and Mpumalanga. In a statement, government singled out the malaria transmission areas of the Vhembe and Mopani districts in Limpopo, as well as on farms along the Lephalale River in the Waterberg region, and in Bushbuckridge in Mpumalanga. It also noted a modest increase in cases in the Kruger National Park and private reserves. “This follows a very busy 2017 malaria season in the entire southern African region, which peaked in April and May and extended into June,” the statement explained. “High rainfall, humidity and ambient temperatures provided ideal conditions for malaria mosquito breeding and contributed to an increase in malaria cases. Unusually mild winter temperatures in malaria areas have allowed for ongoing mosquito and parasite development and led to an early and busy malaria season which started already in August 2017.” READ: Malaria: The warning signs Popo Maja, head of communications for the national department of health, said the key prevention strategy of the malaria control programmes in endemic areas remains the spraying of households with long-acting residual insecticides (IRS) which target indoor feeding mosquitos. “This IRS programme is in progress in both Limpopo and Mpumalanga and is planned to target a larger area than in 2016,” Maja said. “Early treatment of malaria cases is a key strategy. The antimalarial drug Coartem remains highly effective in the treatment of uncomplicated malaria, provided there is early diagnosis and urgent commencement of treatment.” The department urged travellers from, or residents of malaria transmission areas in Limpopo and Mpumalanga, and the far northern KwaZulu-Natal and neighbouring countries such as Mozambique, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Namibia who present with fever and “flu-like” illness to have an urgent blood test and if diagnosed with malaria to treat as a medical emergency. “Misdiagnosis of malaria as influenza is not uncommon with disastrous consequences in a number of persons.” The department urged all travellers to malaria risk areas to take precautions to prevent mosquito bites and said medication to prevent malaria should be highly considered. African News Agency