JOHANNESBURG - The SA Police Service (SAPS) is rumoured to be planning to release crime statistics on Tuesday, later than the usual September release. A crime survey released by Stats SA last month showed a decrease in many crime categories.  FAST FACTS: Victims of crime survey released The annual SAPS statistics cover crimes reported to the police and reflect historical trends, rather than being an indication of up-to-the-minute crime patterns. Resources like Stats SA's National Victims of Crime Survey are used to obtain more details on unreported crimes. Last year, it was announced that SAPS crime statistics would be announced every three months but the police have released quarterly reports this year.  The Victims of Crime Survey indicated that, although crime levels had generally decreased, households reported deteriorating feelings of safety and less confidence in the police and court systems. Stats SA stated some reasons for not reporting crimes, including public dissatisfaction with the justice system, lack of police presence in communities and low conviction rates for housebreaking and home robbery. According to Stats SA data, an arrest is made in only one of every five such reported cases. Households that held negative attitudes about the police felt that the police could not recover stolen goods (59 percent), whereas those that were disgruntled with court services said that courts were too lenient towards criminals. According to the survey, the percentage of households that had experienced at least one incident of crime decreased from 9 percent in 2015/16 to 7 percent in 2016/17, while feelings of safety when walking alone in a neighbourhood at night decreased from 31 percent to 29 percent in the same period. A comparison of crime types shows that housebreaking/burglary (53 percent) was the most common crime experienced by households in 2016/17. This was followed by theft of livestock (11 percent) and home robbery (10 percent. Housebreaking is also the most feared crime in South African households. eNCA