Johannesburg - It’s Friday the 13th, again, and we all know the fuss around today. Superstitious or not if you’ve decided to keep your head low and out of bad luck's way, what better way than to binge watch a string of classic horrors? Here’s a list to get you through the unluckiest day on the calander.  Friday the 13th (1980)  What better way than to kick-start the list than with the classic flick sharing the day's name sake?  A group of camp counselors are stalked and murdered by an unknown assailant while trying to reopen a summer camp which, years before, was the site of a child's drowning. A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) Don't you dare fall asleep, or Freddy Krueger will haunt you in your dreams with a glove armed with razor-sharp knives and a relentless arsenal of punny one-liners. Who can forgot Freddy and his hat? I still get goose bumpsthinking about him. In Wes Craven's classic slasher film, several Midwestern teenagers fall prey to Freddy Krueger, a disfigured midnight mangler who preys on the teenagers in their dreams which, in turn, kills them in reality.  Candy Man (1992) How many played candyman to see if the legend was true? The legend claims that Candyman can be summoned by saying his name five times while facing a mirror, whereupon he will murder the summoner with a hook jammed in the bloody stump of his right arm. Skeptical graduate student Helen Lyle befriends Anne-Marie McCoy while researching superstitions in a housing project on Chicago's Near North Side. From Anne-Marie, Helen learns about the Candyman, a knife-wielding figure of urban legend that some of her neighbors believe to be responsible for a recent murder. After a mysterious man matching the Candyman's description begins stalking her, Helen comes to fear that the legend may be all too real. The Shining (1980) A classic movie with one of the most confusing endings. To date scholars still debate and unpack the meaning and intentions of Kubrick's ending.  Jack Torrance becomes winter caretaker at the isolated Overlook Hotel in Colorado, hoping to cure his writer's block. He settles in along with his wife, Wendy, and his son, Danny, who is plagued by psychic premonitions. As Jack's writing goes nowhere and Danny's visions become more disturbing, Jack discovers the hotel's dark secrets and begins to unravel into a homicidal maniac hell-bent on terrorizing his family. The Exorcist (1973) Rumor has it that some audience members in the '70s reportedly fainted after seeing Dick Smith's grisly makeup effects on Blair. In some extreme cases, viewers even required psychiatric care. This tale of an exorcism is based loosely on actual events. When young Regan starts acting odd, levitating, speaking in tongues, her worried mother seeks medical help, only to hit a dead end. A local priest, however, thinks the girl may be seized by the devil. The priest makes a request to perform an exorcism, and the church sends in an expert to help with the difficult job. Carrie (1976) When Prom night turns to a masacre. Carrie's pig blood scene has become a classic refernece used in many films to date. In 2013 the film was remade.  High school can be tough for many teenagers, but for Carrie White, it's especially hellish. A shy and awkward teen being raised by a religious zealot, Carrie is frequently the target of bullies. But Carrie has a secret talent: She can make things move with her mind. One fateful night, an especially cruel prank at her senior prom pushes her over the edge, and Carrie unleashes her telekinetic powers on all who get in her way. Child’s play (1988) A movie that made us all suspicious of our toys. The red head doll haunted many well into the early 1990's. Gunned down by Detective Mike Norris, dying murderer Charles Lee Ray uses black magic to put his soul inside a doll named Chucky which Karen Barcla then buys for her young son, Andy. When Chucky kills Andy's baby sitter, the boy realizes the doll is alive and tries to warn people, but he's institutionalised. Now Karen must convince the detective of the murderous doll's intentions, before Andy becomes Chucky's next victim. Children of the corn (1984) A good concept but a poorly executed movie, based on a stoty by Stephen King. None the less a good classic. One thing we all wonder to this day is what happened to the body of the little boy placed in the boot?  A couple stranded in a rural town falls into the hands of a group of children who murder all of the town's adults at the command of their leader. I know what you did last summer (1997) If you haven't seen this and it's sequels you've been living under a rock.  A year after running over a fisherman and dumping his body in the water, four friends reconvene when Julie receives a frightening letter telling her that their crime was seen. While pursuing who he thinks is responsible for the letter, Barry is run over by a man with a meat hook. The bloodletting only increases from there, as the killer with the hook continues to stalk Julie, Helen  and Ray. The Hills have eyes (1997)  One movie that made me very suspicious of strange towns.  A family road trip takes a terrifying turn when the travelers become stranded in a barren atomic zone established by the U.S. government. However, the unlucky travelers discover to their horror that the wasteland is far from uninhabited. A band of bloodthirsty mutants prowls the area, and there is nothing they like better than fresh meat. Poltergeist (1982) What happens when a town is built on sacred ground?  Strange and creepy happenings beset an average California family, the Freelings, Diane, teenaged Dana, eight-year-old Robbie (Oliver Robins), and five-year-old Carol Ann  when ghosts commune with them through the television set. 
	Initially friendly and playful, the spirits turn unexpectedly menacing, and, when Carol Ann goes missing, Steve and Diane turn to a parapsychologist and eventually an exorcist for help. The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974) More than four decades after its release, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre still shocks and thrills audiencess and its status as one of the ultimate cult classics shows no signs of fading. When Sally hears that her grandfather's grave may have been vandalised, she and her paraplegic brother, Franklin, set out with their friends to investigate.  After a detour to their family's old farmhouse, they discover a group of crazed, murderous outcasts living next door. As the group is attacked one by one by the chainsaw-wielding Leatherface, who wears a mask of human skin, the survivors must do everything they can to escape. The conjuring (2013) A great way to end your movie marathon with a much more recent horror flick, guarenteed to scare the wits out of you.  In 1970, paranormal investigators and demonologists Lorraine and Ed Warren are summoned to the home of Carolyn and Roger Perron. The Perrons and their five daughters have recently moved into a secluded farmhouse, where a supernatural presence has made itself known. Though the manifestations are relatively benign at first, events soon escalate in horrifying fashion, especially after the Warrens discover the house's macabre history. - Film sysnopsis sourced from Wikipedia YouTube