BLOEMFONTEIN - The completely blind track, road, and cross country Paralympian, Louzanne Coetzee started her running career in her first year at the University of the Free State (UFS). “I started running in my first year at university after competing for my residence at an athletics track meeting. After that, I started to get coaching for sprints, but that didn’t work out so I moved over
	to longer distances,” says Coetzee.  Being completely blind, Coetzee relies on a guide to assist her as she competes. She has had to train with a few guides trying to find someone that best fits her. “I usually look for someone who will best fit my needs and he has to be stronger and faster than I am. It is also very important that our personalities work well together,” says Coetzee.  Were last night's races too late for you? Watch Louzanne Coetzee 12:05, Hilton & Ntutu at 12:15 on https://t.co/LkoWJHJ1tn pic.twitter.com/TDuFHZt7AU The Paralympian has a great support structure with her family, guides and boyfriend playing a huge role in her sports. Her coach is her rock playing mentoring and supporting her. Coetzee has broken the 5000m World Record, 1500m African record in her disability category (T11). Wow! The blind runner Louzanne Coetzee has just shattered her T11 5000m World Record again! New mark stands at 18:14.20 - 12 seconds faster! pic.twitter.com/aCGsMEnh26 She says being disqualified at the Rio Paralympic Games was the worst moment in her sporting career. Coetzee and her guide, Khothatso Mokone, come third in their race in Rio, but they were disqualified under International Paralympic Committee rules which stipulate that a guide is not allowed to pull the runner. “It was very sad and a big shock for me,” said Coetzee. The runner, who is studying towards her masters in Social Cohesion and Reconciliation at UFS, says there would be more media coverage for female athletes if more of them performed better. Coetzee's focus right now is the 2020 Paralympic Games. After the games, she plans on taking part in more road races. Prof Francis Petersen met with athletes Louzanne Coetzee and @WaydeDreamer to congratulate them on their achievements in the past few months pic.twitter.com/RU1GJUK8DW She says once she retires from athletics, she wants a family and a normal job. "I want to have a proper job after I am done with athletics, have a family, have kids and so forth. I believe life will take me where I am needed actually. I try not to plan to far ahead" said Coetzee. - Palesa Manaleng eNCA