Very sad news Tom Van Vollenhoven has died in S. Africa, Former Springbok and St Helens Legend. RIP pic.twitter.com/JboMUq4Zfj CAPE TOWN - Former Springbok back Tom van Vollenhoven, one of the fastest rugby players of his generation, passed away in Springs over the weekend at the age of 82. Karel Thomas van Vollenhoven was surely a pioneer. He played the last of his seven Tests for South Africa in 1956 – which included a famous hat-trick of tries against the touring British Lions in 1955 – but left South Africa to play rugby league for St Helens in the UK. The former wing for Northern Transvaal (now the Blue Bulls) became a sensation at the British league club. Between 1957 and 1968 he played more than 400 games for them, scoring 392 tries during his career at St Helens RFC. READ: FlashBack: Bok brilliance at RWC 2007 Van Vollenhoven was born on April 29, 1935, in Bethlehem in the Eastern Free State. He completed his school career at Voortrekker in Bethlehem and made his Springbok debut not long thereafter, aged only 20, against the British Lions in Johannesburg on August 6, 1955. His final and seventh Test for the Boks was a year later, on August 18, 1956, against New Zealand in Christchurch, and he also played in 16 non-Tests for South Africa. In total, he scored four tries and a drop-goal in Tests in the green and gold. Van Vollenhoven is one of only 21 players to score three tries or more in a Test for the Springboks. He became only the third Bok to score a hat-trick in a Test, in the second Test against the British Lions at Newlands in Cape Town on August 20, 1955. READ: Springboks, Laureus join forces to educate youngsters the active way At Saturday’s Currie Cup semifinal in Durban between the Sharks and Blue Bulls, a moment of silence was held in his remembrance, while the Bulls players also wore black armbands. Van Vollenhoven is survived by his wife, Leonie, two children, Lynn and Keith, and five grandchildren. They lost their son Alan in a motor accident earlier.   African News Agency