CAPE TOWN – The Netherlands have employed former Proteas fast bowler Allan Donald as a bowling consultant, ahead of two key ICC World Cricket League Championship fixtures against Kenya on October 8 and 10. Always nice listening to @AllanDonald33 & Adri Swanepoel talk about bowling-- pic.twitter.com/hCABswNg4H Donald boasts a vast international coaching résumé, including stints with South Africa, England and Sri Lanka. He worked with Warwickshire and Kent in English county cricket, too, and the Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Indian Premier League. He was recently appointed bowling coach for the Bloem City Blazers in the inaugural T20 Global League. READ: Proteas beat Bangladesh by 333 runs in 1st Test “As a coach. I always wanted to expose our squad to the best possible people. Allan brings a wealth of knowledge that our boys would normally not have access to. I think his record speaks for itself,” said Netherlands head coach Ryan Campbell. “He is probably one of the greatest fast bowlers that has ever played the game. Our bowlers will have the chance of a lifetime to work with him. We have given the players the perfect preparation for Kenya. With Allan’s help, we will be ready for the challenge against a very dangerous Kenyan outfit.” Excited 2 announce @AllanDonald33 will join @KNCBcricket as bowling coach for series against Kenya. @AssociateCric @m1lrs #whitelightning⚡️ Two former South African first-class cricketers – and an ex-Proteas player – have been named in the Netherlands’ squad. Batsman Stephan Myburgh, who played for Northerns, and wrist spinner Michael Rippon, who represented the Cape Cobras, will join all-rounder Roelof van der Merwe in the 14-man party. READ: Twitter ablaze after Proteas' Champions trophy exit Van der Merwe gathered 13 ODIs for South Africa before switching allegiance – and has since played 11 Twenty20 Internationals for the Dutch. Rippon was integral to Otago’s 2016-17 List A and first-class campaigns – and Myburgh was recently drafted by the Pretoria Mavericks for November’s T20 Global League. The fixtures were originally scheduled to be played in Nairobi, Kenya, but were moved to East London, South Africa, due to security concerns. African News Agency