JOHANNESBURG - The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has expelled 6 councillors who voted with the African National Congress (ANC) in the contentious Mogale City municipality, also known as Krugersdorp.  READ: EFF to discipline Mogale City councillors for voting ANC In a statement, the EFF says  it central command team, which sat on Saturday, "has taken a resolution, following the national disciplinary committee outcome, to expel the six EFF Mogale City councillors who defied the organisation by voting with the ANC. "On the 11th of July 2017, six EFF councillors contravened the EFF decision not to attend the Mogale City budget vote council meeting in which the ANC needed its budget to be passed. These councillors not only helped for a council meeting quorum to be constituted, they also voted in favour of the proposed ANC budget." READ: Mogale City not to be under administration The EFF says: "The organisation took exception to this conduct as it returned the public purse in the hands of the ANC. This is the same ANC that the people of Mogale City removed from the government following the 2016 local government elections outcomes. It is the same ANC that has been looting the public purse since 1994 to the exclusion and marginalisation of our people.
	
	"The mandate not to vote with ANC was consistent with fighting corruption as reflected in our non-negotiable cardinal pillar number seven. Thus, these six councillors, namely Ms Nhlanhla Shilubane, Ms Nomonde Nkatu, Ms Lemogang Modisane, Mr Eric Baloyi, Mr Edward Motsitsi and Mr Simanga Mkhumbeni, essentially betrayed our revolutionary tenant. Accordingly, they have been expelled." READ: Opposition to challenge Mogale City mayor's appointment According to the statement, the six EFF councillors have the right to appeal, however, the expulsion sentence is effect even when under appeal. The EFF will communicate with the Mogale City Municipal Manager so as to declare the six vacancies and so that the EFF can replace all the six councillors. eNCA