JOHANNESBURG – Two people were injured when the ceiling of a shop collapsed at a mall in Krugersdorp, on the West Rand, as severe thunderstorms hit Gauteng on Monday, paramedics said. ER 24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said that paramedics arrived on the scene where they found that some of the external structure of the mall had collapsed. A lot of TS activity over E parts of SA (see warnings) due to cut-off low. Snowfalls expected over S Drakensberg tonight into tom morning. pic.twitter.com/oasOMtQ047 “Once inside the shops, paramedics found that some of the ceiling had collapsed on the patrons. Two people were assessed by paramedics and found to have sustained minor to moderate injuries. Fortunately, no serious or fatal injuries were found on the scene,” he said. Jet Park sub station on fire on Yaldwin street in Ekhuruleni #GautengStorms avoid the area. pic.twitter.com/IBT3cF1ZOd “Security members from the mall evacuated the area while paramedics treated the two patients. Shortly after, both patients were transported to a nearby hospital for further treatment. Local authorities were on the scene for further investigations.” Earlier on Monday, the South African weather service warned Johannesburg residents to prepare for possible severe thunderstorms. “Residents must prepare themselves for thunderstorms which can be severe, we will issue warnings which they can find on social media,” forecaster Madimetsha Thema from the SA weather services said at the time. Thema said thunder storms usually occur ahead of a cold front and could lead to high winds. eNCA weather center warning that "tornadic activity" won't be limited to Gauteng and will move with the storm. Please be alert. “When storms come people can expect gasty winds.” However, clear weather was expected for the rest of the week. Gauteng Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 10.10.2017 pic.twitter.com/mr4Pzbl8Lp SA Weather tweeted earlier: “Warning:09/10/2017 15h00 to 09/10/2017 19h00 Severe TS observed over Krugersdorp moving toward Soweto, JHB and Ekurhuleni, expect large hail”. Meanwhile, heavy rains fell all over Johannesburg. Sending out a warning earlier in the day, the weather service tweeted: “WARNING for ROAD FLOODING in the Joburg, Sandton and surrounding areas due to heavy rainfall this afternoon 9/10 2017. Please take care.” The situation now in #ruimsig#weather#storm pic.twitter.com/iYAuwY2way Meiring said that nine people were injured in the Delmas and Bapsfontein area after a reported tornado damaged a nearby business and home. He said that paramedics first responded to a business off the R50 in Delmas were a building had been damaged. “Upon arrival, paramedics found that a small building had sustained serious damage, injuring the six people inside. Paramedics assessed the patients and found that all six had sustained injuries ranging from minor to moderate,” he said. He said the injured people were treated for their injuries on the scene before they were transported to various hospitals for further medical treatment. WATCH: #GPhailstorm collapses the roof of Cradlestone Mall >> https://t.co/JTQMFQUJco pic.twitter.com/t5gCaOWYRJ “A short time later, paramedics were called to a residence in the Bapsfontein area for a residence that had apparently collapsed due to the alleged tornado. Upon arrival, paramedics found that a man and his two children had sustained minor to serious injuries. The three patients were treated and provided with pain-relief medication before being transported to a nearby hospital for further treatment.” Earlier, the SA Weather service tweeted a warning for the areas: “Warning: 9 Oct 2017 Severe TS obs over Springs moving to Delmas and Secunda areas, with damaging winds, light hail and heavy downpours.” African News Agency