BLOEMFONTEIN - Growing up, most children jump rope with their friends for fun, while adults use it as a form of staying fit, and boxers use it as part of their training regime. Few people know that one can take jumping rope as a professional sport. Rope jumping falls under the South African Gymnastics Federation (SAGF) as a gymnastics disciplines in South Africa. Sonopo “Sony the Jumper” Johannes represented South Africa at World Championships in Florida in the United States in July this year where he came 5th in speed jumping at masters level. In 2016 he jumped his way to a bronze medal in Sweden when he took part in the Open Tournament. Johannes had to go through trials and take part in national championships to be selected for the team. The 24-year-old QwaQwa-born star hopes the sports will be added to the Olympic games in the future. “It is not part of the Olympics but we have our own federation, our world championships. I think it will be part of the Olympics in the near future”, said Johannes. Johannes explains that the jumping rope at competition level is more complex then skipping with your friends in the street for fun. “Rope Skipping has been there in the olden days, but this one that I am doing is totally different from your traditional rope (Kgathi in Sesotho). This one is more advanced because one can do a lot of things with it. I'm talking about Speed, Free Style, Double Dutch, Chinese wheel. It is more of a gymnastic because we do tumble inside it, do acrobatic moves, and use a lot of creativity.” Johannes is a level seven jumper, which means his a master in South Africa, and his training regime includes speed and power training. “My training entails speed, power, agility, endurance and everything that the athlete needs for a competitive sport like this one. Fortunately,  the Free State Sports Science Institute  takes care of my training programme as far as fitness is concerned for jumping rope, I do the rest because I know what is required of me to do.” The World Champion says his passion for the sports has lead him to develop it in the Free State, but he wants it to grow across the country. "I see myself developing more of the sports in South Africa because not so many people are aware that there is such a sport in the country. It's not only about competitions, there must be development as well so that when I retire the sport will continue to grow and produce more of strong jumpers.” - Palesa Manaleng eNCA