JOHANNESBURG – Kian Rose from Bedfordview won the eighth event in the popular Bridge Fund Managers Junior Series in a play-off on Sunday. Rose set the clubhouse target at the Wanderers Golf Club at four-under-par 67, but Cole Stevens from Parkview reeled in a pair of birdies on the back nine to force the tournament into extra time.
	The pair headed back to the first tee for the play-off.
	 
	“We both hit good drives and both drove the green with our second shots,” explained Rose. “I hit five-iron and had about 20 feet to the pin and Cole was about three feet behind me. We were both back right on the green, with the flag was back left. Cole’s eagle putt looked like it was going in all the way, but it just shaved past the hole. I took a few practice swings, a deep breath and rolled mine in for the win.”
	 
	Rose was thrilled to add his name to the U-19 A-Division winners’ list.
	 
	“All the winners will compete for two spots in the North and South Junior Championship at Pinehurst Resort from next July,” he said.
	 
	“I played in the Clovelly event, but only finished in the top 20, so I am super excited that I won it here at Wanderers. I would love to play Pinehurst next year. Since the nine winners from the south will play in their own regional final, I have a one in nine chance to win the north regional final. I’m going to practice like crazy to give myself a chance, because it’s a huge prize to play for.”
	 
	Stevens had to settle for the runner-up spot, but the South African Golf Development Board member will have another stab at victory when the series resumes early next year. Three more events are slated for Gauteng and Gauteng North in February and March.
	 
	“It’s not all lost, but it will get tougher to qualify when the series resumes next year,” he said. “I may even have to travel to some of the other provinces, but I am going to try really hard to make the final. It’s such a great opportunity that you have to try to win one.”
	 
	It was a great day for the South African Golf Development Board.
	 
	In addition to Stevels, Carl Mwale from Eagle Canyon carded 70 to finish in third, while Chandler Shaw from Wanderers grabbed a share of fourth on even-par with Samual McKenzie from Modderfontein. Wanderers junior Mpopo Kgoba scored 37 points to win the C-Division and Tebogo Lefifi, an 11-handicapper who also plays out of Wanderers, was second in the B-Division Net with a score of 87.
	 
	Juan Human from Pretoria Country Club carded 75 to win the Under-13 A-Division by two strokes. Marno Lange, a 10-handicapper from Serengeti Golf and Wildlife Estate, won Net on 74 and the Under-13 B-Division title went to Arnouw van der Merwe from CMR, who won on 42 points CMR’s Kyle Grove won the B-Division Gross with an 83 and Chleo Valkin from Wanderers won Net on 75.
	 
	Meanwhile Amilkar Bhana continues to flourish.
	 
	Just two weeks after he won the Individual Competition at the Nomads SA U-13 Championship, Bhana collected his second Bridge Fund Manager Junior Series title.
	The Country Club Johannesburg junior won the Under-13 A Division at Clovelly last week and three days after his 13th birthday, he shot 71 off his two-handicap at Wanderers to win the Under-19 A-Division Net prize with a 69.
	  African News Agency