JOHANNESBURG – Australian mining giant Anglo American reported on Wednesday a six percent increase in total production on a copper-equivalent basis in the third quarter of 2017, compared with the same period of 2016. Copper-equivalent production was normalised for the Kimberley, Niobium and Phosphates business in Brazil, Foxleigh and Callide in Australia, and to reflect Snap Lake in Canada being placed on care and maintenance, and the closure of Drayton in Australia. Copper production increased to 147,300 tons, reflecting strong mine extraction and higher associated grades. For the first nine months of the year, copper-equivalent production increased by eight percent. Anglo said production guidance for platinum had been lowered to 2.30–2.35 million ounces following the closure of unprofitable production at Bokoni Platinum in Limpopo, which was placed on care and maintenance in the quarter. READ: Kumba Iron Ore, NUM reach wage agreement The mine, a joint venture between Anglo American Platinum and Atlatsa Resources, wants to lay off about 2,600 workers following a R500-million operating loss in the first six months of this year. Anglo said that production guidance at Kumba Iron Ore had been further increased to 42–44 million tons following the continuation of strong productivity performance at Sishen mine. At De Beers, stable trading conditions supported an increase in rough-diamond production, driven principally by Debswana, and the ramp-up of Gahcho Kué. Anglo American chief executive Mark Cutifani said the miner had delivered another strong production performance across its businesses. “Grosvenor production has materially stepped up as the new operating procedures have been implemented, while Gahcho Kué and Minas-Rio continue to make positive contributions,” Cutifani said. “We have further increased production guidance at Kumba Iron Ore as we continue to improve our broader productivity performance. In Platinum, we have taken necessary steps to remove unprofitable ounces from production as we focus on value over volume.”
	  African News Agency