JOHANNESBURG – SuperSport United booked their place in the final of the CAF Confederation Cup after beating Tunisian giants Club Africain 3-1 in a semi-final, second leg fixture played in front of a large partisan home crowd at the Stade Olympique de Rades in Tunis on Sunday evening. After the first leg fixture had ended 1-all in Atteridgeville in Tshwane earlier this month, SuperSport coach Eric Tinkler, who mentored Orlando Pirates to the CAF Confederation Cup final two years back, actioned the game plan to perfection as his charges soaked up much pressure as the hosts pushed for an early goal. However, the Tunisians were rocked in the 16th minute, when SuperSport’s veteran midfielder Reneilwe Letsholonyane played a long ball across the field from the left, which found Thuso Phala. The right winger sent in the perfect cross, and striker Bradley Grobler, who made a late run, found himself unmarked and powered a header across the goal and into the back of the Club Africain net. This further jolted life into the home side and SuperSport goalkeeper Ronwen Williams was forced to pull off a few superb saves with under-pressure central defenders Morgan Gould and Clayton Daniels doing their best to clear their lines. READ: SuperSport sail into next round of Confed Cup Seven minutes into the second half, the visitors doubled their lead, when fullback Grant Mokoena provided the perfect pass to put New Zealand striker Jeremy Brockie clear, who fired the ball home to score his 10th goal in this season’s CAF Confederation Cup campaign. The Tunisian side received a lifeline in the 55th minute, when Gould fouled one of the home team attackers and Khalifa made no mistake from the penalty spot. Club Africain pushed players forward in search of the equaliser, but any hopes of a comeback by the hosts were dashed in the 65th minute, when Phala once again provided for Grobler to fire home and restore SuperSport’s two goal lead. SuperSport will now face Democratic Republic of Congo side TP Mazembe in the grand finale with the matches to be played on November 17 and the weekend of November 24. The winner of the final will face the winner of the CAF Champions League final, in the battle to lift the CAF African Super Cup. African News Agency