JOHANNESBURG – Kaizer Chiefs recorded their third league win of the season as they held off a 10-man Mamelodi Sundowns team to run out 2-1 winner in an Absa Premiership match, played at the Loftus Stadium on Tuesday evening. The match started 30 minutes late in order for the supporters outside the stadium to make their way inside, but the wait was worth it, with both sides producing some sparkling football, although often poor finishing often let them down. .@BernardParker showed class and composure with this finish as @KaizerChiefs secured a 2-1 win against Sundowns. #AbsaPrem pic.twitter.com/UxBJyeYVKo After a goalless first half in which Chiefs striker Bernard Parker saw his power shot come off the Sundowns crossbar in the 28th minute, with goalkeeper Denis Onyango well beaten, the ‘Mighty Amakhosi’ as Chiefs are known, opened the scoring five minute after the break. Debutant midfielder Siyabonga Ngezana managed to get onto the end of a free-kick and headed the ball across goal and wide of Onyango. Twenty minutes later, Chiefs doubled their lead when midfielder Hendrick Ekstein unleashed a superb over-the-top pass that found Parker, who finished the move with his left foot. Parker, who has come in for much criticism for some lacklustre performances in recent times, played with much passion and was a constant thorn in the flesh of the Sundowns rear-guard. & 50’ @Masandawana 0-1* @KaizerChiefs , what a moment for the U20 international, Ngezana scoring on debut. #AbsaPrem pic.twitter.com/yf4SWbbSGD Things turned from bad to worse for Sundowns a few minutes later, when midfielder Samuel Mabunda – booked earlier in the second half for a push on Ngezana after the youngster had put in a dangerous late tackle on Khama Billiat – was sent for an early shower in the 75th minute. He received his second yellow card in the 80th minute for a tough tackle on George Maluleka. Sundowns managed to give themselves a chance of getting a point, when Themba Zwane scored from the penalty spot in the 80th minute after Chiefs central defender Eric Mathoho had brought down Percy Tau on the right-hand side of the Sundowns penalty area. Chiefs, now on 12 points from 8 games, will begin preparations for Saturday’s home Soweto Derby against Orlando Pirates, while Sundowns, who remain on 9 points now from 5 matches, will host Amazulu on the same day. African News Agency