JOHABBESBURG - Gauteng's Economic Development Department has launched a new service to help small businesses. The Automated SMME Business Services System in Tshwane is the province's flagship programme. Officials are hoping it will unlock bottlenecks for business owners to participate in the mainstream economy. Some entrepreneurs say they’re unhappy about doing business with the Gauteng government. They complain about long waiting periods, old policies, and a lack of feedback. The provincial government says its new Automated SMME Service System will fix these problems. According to Leah Manenzhe of the Gauteng Enterprise Propeller: "We’ve decided to try and centralise our processes to be very responsive because now at any touch-point people will now know what’s going on with their application. In fact, once you’ve submitted your application you get a reference number which you will now be able to use personally to check your application, so you no longer have to wait for us. But it also helps in that at any touch point, once your application moves from my side and it goes to the next processing point, you will also get an automated sms and email that says your application has now moved it’s gone to that phase and so on.” The system allows entrepreneurs to register their businesses, apply for liquor licenses, or invoice their services, all from a single platform online, and they can track the progress of their applications through the system. It’s part of government’s Qondisi’ishishini lakho project. Lebogang Maile, Gauteng's Economic Development MEC, says: “Through an automated system, it will make it difficult for those who are corrupt to continue with their corrupt activities because this will also be seen as part of our anti-corruption drive and fighting laziness in the system, and making sure that we also bust those who are stealing public money and who are engaged in activities that make it difficult for our people to access services for government to deliver services to our people.” The Gauteng government is hoping that these efforts to modernize its systems, will make it easier for people to do business in the province.
	  eNCA